doc/src/bond_bpm_rotational.rst, before:

.. index:: bond_style bpm/rotational

bond_style bpm/rotational command
==========================

Syntax
""""""

.. code-block:: LAMMPS

   bond_style bpm/rotational keyword value attribute1 attribute2 ...

* optional keyword = *store/local*

  .. parsed-literal::

       *store/local* values = ID of associated fix store/local followed by one or more attributes

          *id1, id2* = IDs of 2 atoms in the bond
          *time* = the time the bond broke
          *x, y, z* = the center of mass position of the 2 atoms when the bond broke
          *x/ref, y/ref, z/ref* = the inintial center of mass position of the 2 atoms


Examples
""""""""

.. code-block:: LAMMPS

   bond_style bpm/rotational
   bond_coeff 1 1.0 0.2 0.02 0.02 0.20 0.04 0.04 0.04 0.1 0.02 0.002 0.002

   bond_style bpm/rotational myfix time id1 id2
   fix myfix all store/local 1000 3
   dump 1 all local 1000 dump.broken f_myfix[1] f_myfix[2] f_myfix[3]
   dump_modify 1 write_header no

Description
"""""""""""

The *bpm/rotational* bond style computes forces and torques based
on deviations from the initial reference state of the two atoms.
The reference state is stored by each bond when it is first computed
in the setup of a run. Data is then preserved across run commands and
is written to :doc:`binary restart files <restart>` such that restarting
the system will not reset the reference state of a bond.

Forces include a normal and tangential component. The base normal force
has a magnitude of

.. math::

   f_r = k_r (r - r_0)

where :math:`k_r` is a stiffness and :math:`r` is the current distance and
:math:`r_0` is the initial distance between the two particles.

A tangential force is applied perpendicular to the normal direction
which is proportional to the tangential shear displacement with a stiffness
of :math:`k_s`. This tangential force also induces a torque.
In addition, bending and twisting torques are also applied to particles
which are proportional to angular bending and twisting displacements with
stiffnesses of :math`k_b` and :math:`k_t', respectively.
Details on the calculations of shear displacements and angular displacements
can be found in :ref:`(Wang) <Wang2009>` and :ref:`(Wang and Mora) <WangMora2009b>`.

Bonds will break under sufficient stress. A breaking criteria is calculated

.. math::

   B = \mathrm{max}\{0, \frac{f_r}{f_{r,c}} + \frac{|f_s|}{f_{s,c}} +
       \frac{|\tau_b|}{\tau_{b,c}} + \frac{|\tau_t|}{\tau_{t,c}} \}

where :math:`|f_s|` is the magnitude of the shear force and
:math:`|\tau_b|` and :math:`|\tau_t|` are the magnitudes of the bending and
twisting forces, respectively. The corresponding variables :math:`f_{r,c}`
:math:`f_{s,c}`, :math:`\tau_{b,c}`, and :math:`\tau_{t,c}` are critical
limits to each force or torque.
If :math:`B` is ever equal to or exceeds one, the bond will break.
This is done by setting by setting its type to 0 such that forces and
torques are no longer computed.

After computing the base magnitudes of the forces and torques, they are
all multiplied by an extra factor :math:`w` to smoothly interpolate
forces and torques to zero as the bond breaks. This term is calculated
as :math:`w = (1.0 - B^4)`.

Finally, additional damping forces and torques are applied to the two
particles. A force is applied proportional to the difference in the
normal velocity of particles using a similar construction as
dissipative particle dynamics (:ref:`(Groot) <Groot1>`):

.. math::

   F_D = - \gamma_n w (\hat{r} \bullet \vec{v})

where :math:`\gamma_n` is the damping strength, :math:`\hat{r}` is the
radial normal vector, and :math:`\vec{v}` is the velocity difference
between the two particles. Similarly, tangential forces are applied to
each atom proportional to the relative differences in sliding velocities
with a constant prefactor :math:`\gamma_s` (:ref:`(Wang et al.) <Wang2015>)
along with their associated torques. The rolling and twisting components of
the relative angular velocities of the two atoms are also damped by applying
torques with prefactors of :math:`\gamma_r` and :math:`\gamma_t`, respectively.

The following coefficients must be defined for each bond type via the
:doc:`bond_coeff <bond_coeff>` command as in the example above, or in
the data file or restart files read by the :doc:`read_data <read_data>`
or :doc:`read_restart <read_restart>` commands:

* :math:`k_r`           (force/distance units)
* :math:`k_s`           (force/distance units)
* :math:`k_t`           (force units)
* :math:`k_b`           (force units)
* :math:`f_{r,c}`       (force units)
* :math:`f_{s,c}`       (force units)
* :math:`\tau_{b,c}`    (force*distance units)
* :math:`\tau_{t,c}`    (force*distance units)
* :math:`\gamma_n`      (force/velocity units)
* :math:`\gamma_s`      (force/velocity units)
* :math:`\gamma_r`      (distance*force/seconds/radians units)
* :math:`\gamma_t`      (distance*force/seconds/radians units)

As bonds can be broken between neighbor list builds, particular
:doc:`special_bonds <special_bonds>` are required. See the `:doc: how to <Howto_BPM>`
page on BPMs or `:doc: fix update/special/bonds <fix_update_special_bonds>`
for details.

This bond style tracks broken bonds and can record them using an instance of
:doc:`fix store/local <fix_store_local>` if the *store/local* keyword is
used followed by the ID of the fix and then a series of bond attributes.

Note that when bonds are dumped to a file via the :doc:`dump local <dump>`
command, bonds with type 0 (broken bonds) are not included.  The
:doc:`delete_bonds <delete_bonds>` command can also be used to query the
status of broken bonds or permanently delete them, e.g.:

.. code-block:: LAMMPS

   delete_bonds all stats
   delete_bonds all bond 0 remove


----------

Restart
"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

This bond style writes the reference state of each bond to
:doc:`binary restart files <restart>`. Loading a restart
file will properly resume bonds.

Restrictions
""""""""""""

This bond style can only be used if LAMMPS was built with the BPM
package. See the :doc:`Build package <Build_package>` doc page for more
info.

The *bpm/rotational* style requires 1-3 and 1-4 :doc:`special_bonds <special_bonds>`
be turned off using the :doc:`special_bonds <special_bonds>` command.

The *bpm/rotational* style requires :doc:`atom style sphere/bpm <atom_style>`.

Related commands
""""""""""""""""

:doc:`bond_coeff <bond_coeff>`, :doc:`fix store/local <fix_store_local>`,
:doc:`fix nve/sphere/bpm <fix_nve_sphere_bpm>`

Default
"""""""

none


.. _Wang2009:

**(Wang)** Wang, Acta Geotechnica, 4,
p 117-127 (2009).

.. _Wang2009b:

**(Wang and Mora)** Wang, Mora, Advances in Geocomputing,
119, p 183-228 (2009).

.. _Groot1:

**(Groot)** Groot and Warren, J Chem Phys, 107, 4423-35 (1997).

.. _Wang2015:

**(Wang et al, 2015)** Wang, Y., Alonso-Marroquin, F., & Guo,
W. W. (2015).  Rolling and sliding in 3-D discrete element
models. Particuology, 23, 49-55.

Commit message:

Moving update/special/bonds into bond style to ensure correct fix ordering
Former-commit-id: acb1c8e7f28858d81a9501424dedd53488d0f2bd

doc/src/bond_bpm_rotational.rst, after:

.. index:: bond_style bpm/rotational

bond_style bpm/rotational command
==========================

Syntax
""""""

.. code-block:: LAMMPS

   bond_style bpm/rotational keyword value attribute1 attribute2 ...

* optional keyword = *overlay/pair* or *store/local*

  .. parsed-literal::

       *store/local* values = ID of associated fix store/local followed by one or more attributes

          *id1, id2* = IDs of 2 atoms in the bond
          *time* = the time the bond broke
          *x, y, z* = the center of mass position of the 2 atoms when the bond broke
          *x/ref, y/ref, z/ref* = the inintial center of mass position of the 2 atoms


Examples
""""""""

.. code-block:: LAMMPS

   bond_style bpm/rotational
   bond_coeff 1 1.0 0.2 0.02 0.02 0.20 0.04 0.04 0.04 0.1 0.02 0.002 0.002

   bond_style bpm/rotational myfix time id1 id2
   fix myfix all store/local 1000 3
   dump 1 all local 1000 dump.broken f_myfix[1] f_myfix[2] f_myfix[3]
   dump_modify 1 write_header no

Description
"""""""""""

The *bpm/rotational* bond style computes forces and torques based
on deviations from the initial reference state of the two atoms.
The reference state is stored by each bond when it is first computed
in the setup of a run. Data is then preserved across run commands and
is written to :doc:`binary restart files <restart>` such that restarting
the system will not reset the reference state of a bond.

Forces include a normal and tangential component. The base normal force
has a magnitude of

.. math::

   f_r = k_r (r - r_0)

where :math:`k_r` is a stiffness and :math:`r` is the current distance and
:math:`r_0` is the initial distance between the two particles.

A tangential force is applied perpendicular to the normal direction
which is proportional to the tangential shear displacement with a stiffness
of :math:`k_s`. This tangential force also induces a torque.
In addition, bending and twisting torques are also applied to particles
which are proportional to angular bending and twisting displacements with
stiffnesses of :math`k_b` and :math:`k_t', respectively.
Details on the calculations of shear displacements and angular displacements
can be found in :ref:`(Wang) <Wang2009>` and :ref:`(Wang and Mora) <WangMora2009b>`.

Bonds will break under sufficient stress. A breaking criteria is calculated

.. math::

   B = \mathrm{max}\{0, \frac{f_r}{f_{r,c}} + \frac{|f_s|}{f_{s,c}} +
       \frac{|\tau_b|}{\tau_{b,c}} + \frac{|\tau_t|}{\tau_{t,c}} \}

where :math:`|f_s|` is the magnitude of the shear force and
:math:`|\tau_b|` and :math:`|\tau_t|` are the magnitudes of the bending and
twisting forces, respectively. The corresponding variables :math:`f_{r,c}`
:math:`f_{s,c}`, :math:`\tau_{b,c}`, and :math:`\tau_{t,c}` are critical
limits to each force or torque.
If :math:`B` is ever equal to or exceeds one, the bond will break.
This is done by setting by setting its type to 0 such that forces and
torques are no longer computed.

After computing the base magnitudes of the forces and torques, they are
all multiplied by an extra factor :math:`w` to smoothly interpolate
forces and torques to zero as the bond breaks. This term is calculated
as :math:`w = (1.0 - B^4)`.

Finally, additional damping forces and torques are applied to the two
particles. A force is applied proportional to the difference in the
normal velocity of particles using a similar construction as
dissipative particle dynamics (:ref:`(Groot) <Groot1>`):

.. math::

   F_D = - \gamma_n w (\hat{r} \bullet \vec{v})

where :math:`\gamma_n` is the damping strength, :math:`\hat{r}` is the
radial normal vector, and :math:`\vec{v}` is the velocity difference
between the two particles. Similarly, tangential forces are applied to
each atom proportional to the relative differences in sliding velocities
with a constant prefactor :math:`\gamma_s` (:ref:`(Wang et al.) <Wang2015>)
along with their associated torques. The rolling and twisting components of
the relative angular velocities of the two atoms are also damped by applying
torques with prefactors of :math:`\gamma_r` and :math:`\gamma_t`, respectively.

The following coefficients must be defined for each bond type via the
:doc:`bond_coeff <bond_coeff>` command as in the example above, or in
the data file or restart files read by the :doc:`read_data <read_data>`
or :doc:`read_restart <read_restart>` commands:

* :math:`k_r`           (force/distance units)
* :math:`k_s`           (force/distance units)
* :math:`k_t`           (force units)
* :math:`k_b`           (force units)
* :math:`f_{r,c}`       (force units)
* :math:`f_{s,c}`       (force units)
* :math:`\tau_{b,c}`    (force*distance units)
* :math:`\tau_{t,c}`    (force*distance units)
* :math:`\gamma_n`      (force/velocity units)
* :math:`\gamma_s`      (force/velocity units)
* :math:`\gamma_r`      (distance*force/seconds/radians units)
* :math:`\gamma_t`      (distance*force/seconds/radians units)

By default, pair forces are not calculated between bonded particles.
Pair forces can alternatively be overlaid on top of bond forces
using the *overlay/pair* keyword. These settings require specific
:doc:`special_bonds <special_bonds>` settings described in the restrictions.
Further details can be found in the `:doc: how to <Howto_BPM>` page on BPMs.

This bond style tracks broken bonds and can record them using an instance of
:doc:`fix store/local <fix_store_local>` if the *store/local* keyword is
used followed by the ID of the fix and then a series of bond attributes.

Note that when bonds are dumped to a file via the :doc:`dump local <dump>`
command, bonds with type 0 (broken bonds) are not included.  The
:doc:`delete_bonds <delete_bonds>` command can also be used to query the
status of broken bonds or permanently delete them, e.g.:

.. code-block:: LAMMPS

   delete_bonds all stats
   delete_bonds all bond 0 remove


----------

Restart
"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

This bond style writes the reference state of each bond to
:doc:`binary restart files <restart>`. Loading a restart
file will properly resume bonds.

Restrictions
""""""""""""

This bond style can only be used if LAMMPS was built with the BPM
package. See the :doc:`Build package <Build_package>` doc page for more
info.

By default if pair interactions are censored, this bond style requires setting

.. code-block:: LAMMPS

   special_bonds lj 0 1 1 coul 1 1 1

and :doc:`newton <newton>` must be set to bond off.
If the *overlay/pair* option is used, this bond style alternatively requires setting

.. code-block:: LAMMPS

   special_bonds lj/coul 1 1 1

The *bpm/rotational* style requires :doc:`atom style sphere/bpm <atom_style>`.

Related commands
""""""""""""""""

:doc:`bond_coeff <bond_coeff>`, :doc:`fix store/local <fix_store_local>`,
:doc:`fix nve/sphere/bpm <fix_nve_sphere_bpm>`

Default
"""""""

none


.. _Wang2009:

**(Wang)** Wang, Acta Geotechnica, 4,
p 117-127 (2009).

.. _Wang2009b:

**(Wang and Mora)** Wang, Mora, Advances in Geocomputing,
119, p 183-228 (2009).

.. _Groot1:

**(Groot)** Groot and Warren, J Chem Phys, 107, 4423-35 (1997).

.. _Wang2015:

**(Wang et al, 2015)** Wang, Y., Alonso-Marroquin, F., & Guo,
W. W. (2015).  Rolling and sliding in 3-D discrete element
models. Particuology, 23, 49-55.
