doc/src/bond_bpm_spring.rst, before:

.. index:: bond_style bpm/spring

bond_style bpm/spring command
==========================

Syntax
""""""

.. code-block:: LAMMPS

   bond_style bpm/spring keyword value attribute1 attribute2 ...

* optional keyword = *overlay/pair* or *store/local*

  .. parsed-literal::

       *store/local* values = ID of associated fix store/local followed by one or more attributes

          *id1, id2* = IDs of 2 atoms in the bond
          *time* = the timestep the bond broke
          *x, y, z* = the center of mass position of the 2 atoms when the bond broke (distance units)
          *x/ref, y/ref, z/ref* = the initial center of mass position of the 2 atoms (distance units)

       *overlay/pair* value = none
          bonded particles will still interact with pair forces

Examples
""""""""

.. code-block:: LAMMPS

   bond_style bpm/spring
   bond_coeff 1 1.0 0.05 0.1

   bond_style bpm/spring myfix time id1 id2
   fix myfix all store/local 1000 3
   dump 1 all local 1000 dump.broken f_myfix[1] f_myfix[2] f_myfix[3]
   dump_modify 1 write_header no

Description
"""""""""""

The *bpm/spring* bond style computes forces and torques based on
deviations from the initial reference state of the two atoms.  The
reference state is stored by each bond when it is first computed in
the setup of a run. Data is then preserved across run commands and is
written to :doc:`binary restart files <restart>` such that restarting
the system will not reset the reference state of a bond.

This bond style only applies central-body forces which conserve the
translational and rotational degrees of freedom of a bonded set of
particles. The force has a magnitude of

.. math::

   F = k (r - r_0) w

where :math:`k_r` is a stiffness, :math:`r` is the current distance
and :math:`r_0` is the initial distance between the two particles, and
:math:`w` is a smoothing factor.  Bonds will break at a strain of
:math:`\epsilon_c`.  This is done by setting by setting its type to 0
such that forces are no longer computed.  The smoothing factor
:math:`w` is constructed such that forces smoothly go to zero,
avoiding discontinuities, as bonds approach the critical strain

.. math::

   w = 1.0 - \left( \frac{r - r_0}{r_0 \epsilon_c} \right)^8 .

Finally, an additional damping force is applied to the bonded
particles.  This forces is proportional to the difference in the
normal velocity of particles using a similar construction as
dissipative particle dynamics (:ref:`(Groot) <Groot1>`):

.. math::

   F_D = - \gamma w (\hat{r} \bullet \vec{v})

where :math:`\gamma` is the damping strength, :math:`\hat{r}` is the
radial normal vector, and :math:`\vec{v}` is the velocity difference
between the two particles.

The following coefficients must be defined for each bond type via the
:doc:`bond_coeff <bond_coeff>` command as in the example above, or in
the data file or restart files read by the :doc:`read_data
<read_data>` or :doc:`read_restart <read_restart>` commands:

* :math:`k`             (force/distance units)
* :math:`\epsilon_c`    (unit less)
* :math:`\gamma`        (force/velocity units)

By default, pair forces are not calculated between bonded particles.
Pair forces can alternatively be overlaid on top of bond forces using
the *overlay/pair* keyword. These settings require specific
:doc:`special_bonds <special_bonds>` settings described in the
restrictions.  Further details can be found in the `:doc: how to
<Howto_BPM>` page on BPMs.

This bond style tracks broken bonds and can record them using an
instance of :doc:`fix store/local <fix_store_local>` if the
*store/local* keyword is used followed by the ID of the fix and then a
series of bond attributes.

Note that when bonds are dumped to a file via the :doc:`dump local
<dump>` command, bonds with type 0 (broken bonds) are not included.
The :doc:`delete_bonds <delete_bonds>` command can also be used to
query the status of broken bonds or permanently delete them, e.g.:

.. code-block:: LAMMPS

   delete_bonds all stats
   delete_bonds all bond 0 remove

----------

Restart
"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

This bond style writes the reference state of each bond to
:doc:`binary restart files <restart>`. Loading a restart
file will properly resume bonds.

Restrictions
""""""""""""

This bond style can only be used if LAMMPS was built with the BPM
package. See the :doc:`Build package <Build_package>` doc page for
more info.

By default if pair interactions are to be disabled, this bond style
requires setting

.. code-block:: LAMMPS

   special_bonds lj 0 1 1 coul 1 1 1

and :doc:`newton <newton>` must be set to bond off.  If the
*overlay/pair* option is used, this bond style alternatively requires
setting

.. code-block:: LAMMPS

   special_bonds lj/coul 1 1 1

Related commands
""""""""""""""""

:doc:`bond_coeff <bond_coeff>`, :doc:`fix store/local <fix_store_local>`,
:doc:`pair bpm/spring <pair_bpm_spring>`

Default
"""""""

none

----------

.. _Groot1:

**(Groot)** Groot and Warren, J Chem Phys, 107, 4423-35 (1997).

Commit message:

Adding compatability with MC fixes, set_array to property/atom, faster update/special/bonds, single methods, and misc small changes
Former-commit-id: 455cb09cf4bf9ac2e051f26263bffecb950d3171

doc/src/bond_bpm_spring.rst, after:

.. index:: bond_style bpm/spring

bond_style bpm/spring command
==========================

Syntax
""""""

.. code-block:: LAMMPS

   bond_style bpm/spring keyword value attribute1 attribute2 ...

* optional keyword = *overlay/pair* or *store/local*

  .. parsed-literal::

       *store/local* values = ID of associated fix store/local followed by one or more attributes

          *id1, id2* = IDs of 2 atoms in the bond
          *time* = the timestep the bond broke
          *x, y, z* = the center of mass position of the 2 atoms when the bond broke (distance units)
          *x/ref, y/ref, z/ref* = the initial center of mass position of the 2 atoms (distance units)

       *overlay/pair* value = none
          bonded particles will still interact with pair forces

Examples
""""""""

.. code-block:: LAMMPS

   bond_style bpm/spring
   bond_coeff 1 1.0 0.05 0.1

   bond_style bpm/spring myfix time id1 id2
   fix myfix all store/local 1000 3
   dump 1 all local 1000 dump.broken f_myfix[1] f_myfix[2] f_myfix[3]
   dump_modify 1 write_header no

Description
"""""""""""

The *bpm/spring* bond style computes forces and torques based on
deviations from the initial reference state of the two atoms.  The
reference state is stored by each bond when it is first computed in
the setup of a run. Data is then preserved across run commands and is
written to :doc:`binary restart files <restart>` such that restarting
the system will not reset the reference state of a bond.

This bond style only applies central-body forces which conserve the
translational and rotational degrees of freedom of a bonded set of
particles. The force has a magnitude of

.. math::

   F = k (r - r_0) w

where :math:`k_r` is a stiffness, :math:`r` is the current distance
and :math:`r_0` is the initial distance between the two particles, and
:math:`w` is a smoothing factor.  Bonds will break at a strain of
:math:`\epsilon_c`.  This is done by setting by setting its type to 0
such that forces are no longer computed.  The smoothing factor
:math:`w` is constructed such that forces smoothly go to zero,
avoiding discontinuities, as bonds approach the critical strain

.. math::

   w = 1.0 - \left( \frac{r - r_0}{r_0 \epsilon_c} \right)^8 .

Finally, an additional damping force is applied to the bonded
particles.  This forces is proportional to the difference in the
normal velocity of particles using a similar construction as
dissipative particle dynamics (:ref:`(Groot) <Groot1>`):

.. math::

   F_D = - \gamma w (\hat{r} \bullet \vec{v})

where :math:`\gamma` is the damping strength, :math:`\hat{r}` is the
radial normal vector, and :math:`\vec{v}` is the velocity difference
between the two particles.

The following coefficients must be defined for each bond type via the
:doc:`bond_coeff <bond_coeff>` command as in the example above, or in
the data file or restart files read by the :doc:`read_data
<read_data>` or :doc:`read_restart <read_restart>` commands:

* :math:`k`             (force/distance units)
* :math:`\epsilon_c`    (unit less)
* :math:`\gamma`        (force/velocity units)

By default, pair forces are not calculated between bonded particles.
Pair forces can alternatively be overlaid on top of bond forces using
the *overlay/pair* keyword. These settings require specific
:doc:`special_bonds <special_bonds>` settings described in the
restrictions.  Further details can be found in the `:doc: how to
<Howto_BPM>` page on BPMs.

This bond style tracks broken bonds and can record them using an
instance of :doc:`fix store/local <fix_store_local>` if the
*store/local* keyword is used followed by the ID of the fix and then a
series of bond attributes.

Note that when bonds are dumped to a file via the :doc:`dump local
<dump>` command, bonds with type 0 (broken bonds) are not included.
The :doc:`delete_bonds <delete_bonds>` command can also be used to
query the status of broken bonds or permanently delete them, e.g.:

.. code-block:: LAMMPS

   delete_bonds all stats
   delete_bonds all bond 0 remove

----------

Restart and other info
"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

This bond style writes the reference state of each bond to
:doc:`binary restart files <restart>`. Loading a restart
file will properly resume bonds.

The single() function of these pair styles returns 0.0 for the energy
of a pairwise interaction, since energy is not conserved in these
dissipative potentials.

Restrictions
""""""""""""

This bond style can only be used if LAMMPS was built with the BPM
package. See the :doc:`Build package <Build_package>` doc page for
more info.

By default if pair interactions are to be disabled, this bond style
requires setting

.. code-block:: LAMMPS

   special_bonds lj 0 1 1 coul 1 1 1

and :doc:`newton <newton>` must be set to bond off.  If the
*overlay/pair* option is used, this bond style alternatively requires
setting

.. code-block:: LAMMPS

   special_bonds lj/coul 1 1 1

Related commands
""""""""""""""""

:doc:`bond_coeff <bond_coeff>`, :doc:`fix store/local <fix_store_local>`,
:doc:`pair bpm/spring <pair_bpm_spring>`

Default
"""""""

none

----------

.. _Groot1:

**(Groot)** Groot and Warren, J Chem Phys, 107, 4423-35 (1997).
