doc/src/Build_windows.rst, before:

Notes for building LAMMPS on Windows
------------------------------------

* :ref:`General remarks <generic>`
* :ref:`Running Linux on Windows <linux>`
* :ref:`Using GNU GCC ported to Windows <gnu>`
* :ref:`Using Visual Studio <msvc>`
* :ref:`Using a cross-compiler <cross>`

----------

.. _generic:

General remarks
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

LAMMPS is developed and tested primarily on Linux machines.  The vast
majority of HPC clusters and supercomputers today run on Linux as well.
While portability to other platforms is desired, it is not always achieved.
The LAMMPS developers are dependent on LAMMPS users giving feedback and
providing assistance in resolving portability issues.  This is particularly
true for compiling LAMMPS on Windows, since this platform has significant
differences in some low-level functionality.

.. _linux:

Running Linux on Windows
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Before trying to build LAMMPS on Windows, please consider if the
pre-compiled Windows binary packages are sufficient for your needs.  If
it is necessary for you to compile LAMMPS on a Windows machine
(e.g. because it is your main desktop), please also consider using a
virtual machine software and compile and run LAMMPS in a Linux virtual
machine, or - if you have a sufficiently up-to-date Windows 10 or
Windows 11 installation - consider using the Windows subsystem for
Linux.  This optional Windows feature allows you to run the bash shell
from Ubuntu from within Windows and from there on, you can pretty much
use that shell like you are running on an Ubuntu Linux machine
(e.g. installing software via apt-get and more).  For more details on
that, please see :doc:`this tutorial <Howto_wsl>`.

.. _gnu:

Using a GNU GCC ported to Windows
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

One option for compiling LAMMPS on Windows natively that has been known
to work in the past is to install a bash shell, unix shell utilities,
perl, GNU make, and a GNU compiler ported to Windows.  The Cygwin
package provides a unix/linux interface to low-level Windows functions,
so LAMMPS can be compiled on Windows.  The necessary (minor)
modifications to LAMMPS are included, but may not always up-to-date for
recently added functionality and the corresponding new code.  A machine
makefile for using cygwin for the old build system is provided. Using
CMake for this mode of compilation is untested and not likely to work.

When compiling for Windows do **not** set the ``-DLAMMPS_MEMALIGN``
define in the LMP_INC makefile variable and add ``-lwsock32 -lpsapi`` to
the linker flags in LIB makefile variable. Try adding ``-static-libgcc``
or ``-static`` or both to the linker flags when your resulting LAMMPS
Windows executable complains about missing .dll files. The CMake
configuration should set this up automatically, but is untested.

In case of problems, you are recommended to contact somebody with
experience in using Cygwin.  If you do come across portability problems
requiring changes to the LAMMPS source code, or figure out corrections
yourself, please report them on the lammps-users mailing list, or file
them as an issue or pull request on the LAMMPS GitHub project.

.. _msvc:

Using Microsoft Visual Studio
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Following the integration of the :doc:`platform namespace
<Developer_platform>` into the LAMMPS code base, portability of LAMMPS
to be compiled on Windows using Visual Studio has been significantly
improved.  This has been tested with Visual Studio 2019 (aka version
16).  Not all features and packages in LAMMPS are currently supported
out of the box, but a preset ``cmake/presets/windows.cmake`` is provided
that contains the packages that have been compiled successfully.  You
must use the CMake based build procedure, and either use the integrated
CMake support of Visual Studio or use an external CMake installation to
create build files for the Visual Studio build system.  Please note that
on launching Visual Studio it will scan the directory tree and likely
miss the correct master ``CMakeLists.txt``.  Try to open the
``cmake/CMakeSettings.json`` and use those CMake configurations as a
starting point.  It is also possible to configure and compile LAMMPS
from the command line with a CMake binary from `cmake.org <https://cmake.org>`_.

To support running in parallel you can compile with OpenMP enabled using
the OPENMP package or install Microsoft MPI (including the SDK) and compile
LAMMPS with MPI enabled.

This is work in progress and you should contact the LAMMPS developers
via GitHub, the forum, or the mailing list, if you have questions or
LAMMPS specific problems.

.. _cross:

Using a cross-compiler
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

If you need to provide custom LAMMPS binaries for Windows, but do not
need to do the compilation on Windows, please consider using a Linux to
Windows cross-compiler.  This is how currently the Windows binary
packages are created by the LAMMPS developers.  Because of that, this is
probably the currently best tested and supported way to build LAMMPS
executables for Windows.  A CMake preset selecting all packages
compatible with this cross-compilation build is provided.  The GPU
package can only be compiled with OpenCL support.  To compile with MPI
support, a pre-compiled library and the corresponding header files are
required.  When building with CMake the matching package will be
downloaded automatically, but MPI support has to be explicitly enabled
with ``-DBUILD_MPI=on``.

Please keep in mind, though, that this only applies to **compiling** LAMMPS.
Whether the resulting binaries do work correctly is rarely tested by the
LAMMPS developers.  We instead rely on the feedback of the users
of these pre-compiled LAMMPS packages for Windows.  We will try to resolve
issues to the best of our abilities if we become aware of them. However
this is subject to time constraints and focus on HPC platforms.

.. _native:

Native Visual C++ support
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Support for the Visual C++ compilers is currently not available. The
CMake build system is capable of creating suitable a Visual Studio
style build environment, but the LAMMPS source code itself is not
ported to fully support Visual C++. Volunteers to take on this task
are welcome.

Commit message:

Document multi-configuration build support in CMake
Former-commit-id: 935c17f02e5dec0e3f32abb376cf42f1cb577c87

doc/src/Build_windows.rst, after:

Notes for building LAMMPS on Windows
------------------------------------

* :ref:`General remarks <generic>`
* :ref:`Running Linux on Windows <linux>`
* :ref:`Using GNU GCC ported to Windows <gnu>`
* :ref:`Using Visual Studio <msvc>`
* :ref:`Using a cross-compiler <cross>`

----------

.. _generic:

General remarks
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

LAMMPS is developed and tested primarily on Linux machines.  The vast
majority of HPC clusters and supercomputers today run on Linux as well.
While portability to other platforms is desired, it is not always achieved.
The LAMMPS developers are dependent on LAMMPS users giving feedback and
providing assistance in resolving portability issues.  This is particularly
true for compiling LAMMPS on Windows, since this platform has significant
differences in some low-level functionality.

.. _linux:

Running Linux on Windows
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Before trying to build LAMMPS on Windows, please consider if the
pre-compiled Windows binary packages are sufficient for your needs.  If
it is necessary for you to compile LAMMPS on a Windows machine
(e.g. because it is your main desktop), please also consider using a
virtual machine software and compile and run LAMMPS in a Linux virtual
machine, or - if you have a sufficiently up-to-date Windows 10 or
Windows 11 installation - consider using the Windows subsystem for
Linux.  This optional Windows feature allows you to run the bash shell
from Ubuntu from within Windows and from there on, you can pretty much
use that shell like you are running on an Ubuntu Linux machine
(e.g. installing software via apt-get and more).  For more details on
that, please see :doc:`this tutorial <Howto_wsl>`.

.. _gnu:

Using a GNU GCC ported to Windows
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

One option for compiling LAMMPS on Windows natively that has been known
to work in the past is to install a bash shell, unix shell utilities,
perl, GNU make, and a GNU compiler ported to Windows.  The Cygwin
package provides a unix/linux interface to low-level Windows functions,
so LAMMPS can be compiled on Windows.  The necessary (minor)
modifications to LAMMPS are included, but may not always up-to-date for
recently added functionality and the corresponding new code.  A machine
makefile for using cygwin for the old build system is provided. Using
CMake for this mode of compilation is untested and not likely to work.

When compiling for Windows do **not** set the ``-DLAMMPS_MEMALIGN``
define in the LMP_INC makefile variable and add ``-lwsock32 -lpsapi`` to
the linker flags in LIB makefile variable. Try adding ``-static-libgcc``
or ``-static`` or both to the linker flags when your resulting LAMMPS
Windows executable complains about missing .dll files. The CMake
configuration should set this up automatically, but is untested.

In case of problems, you are recommended to contact somebody with
experience in using Cygwin.  If you do come across portability problems
requiring changes to the LAMMPS source code, or figure out corrections
yourself, please report them on the lammps-users mailing list, or file
them as an issue or pull request on the LAMMPS GitHub project.

.. _msvc:

Using Microsoft Visual Studio
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Following the integration of the :doc:`platform namespace
<Developer_platform>` into the LAMMPS code base, portability of LAMMPS
to be compiled on Windows using Visual Studio has been significantly
improved.  This has been tested with Visual Studio 2019 (aka version
16).  Not all features and packages in LAMMPS are currently supported
out of the box, but a preset ``cmake/presets/windows.cmake`` is provided
that contains the packages that have been compiled successfully.  You
must use the CMake based build procedure, and either use the integrated
CMake support of Visual Studio or use an external CMake installation to
create build files for the Visual Studio build system.  Please note that
on launching Visual Studio it will scan the directory tree and likely
miss the correct master ``CMakeLists.txt``.  Try to open the
``cmake/CMakeSettings.json`` and use those CMake configurations as a
starting point.  It is also possible to configure and compile LAMMPS
from the command line with a CMake binary from `cmake.org <https://cmake.org>`_.

Please note, that for either approach CMake will create a so-called
:ref:`"multi-configuration" build environment <cmake_multiconfig>`, and
the command lines for building and testing LAMMPS must be adjusted
accordingly.

To support running in parallel you can compile with OpenMP enabled using
the OPENMP package or install Microsoft MPI (including the SDK) and compile
LAMMPS with MPI enabled.

This is work in progress and you should contact the LAMMPS developers
via GitHub, the forum, or the mailing list, if you have questions or
LAMMPS specific problems.

.. _cross:

Using a cross-compiler
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

If you need to provide custom LAMMPS binaries for Windows, but do not
need to do the compilation on Windows, please consider using a Linux to
Windows cross-compiler.  This is how currently the Windows binary
packages are created by the LAMMPS developers.  Because of that, this is
probably the currently best tested and supported way to build LAMMPS
executables for Windows.  A CMake preset selecting all packages
compatible with this cross-compilation build is provided.  The GPU
package can only be compiled with OpenCL support.  To compile with MPI
support, a pre-compiled library and the corresponding header files are
required.  When building with CMake the matching package will be
downloaded automatically, but MPI support has to be explicitly enabled
with ``-DBUILD_MPI=on``.

Please keep in mind, though, that this only applies to **compiling** LAMMPS.
Whether the resulting binaries do work correctly is rarely tested by the
LAMMPS developers.  We instead rely on the feedback of the users
of these pre-compiled LAMMPS packages for Windows.  We will try to resolve
issues to the best of our abilities if we become aware of them. However
this is subject to time constraints and focus on HPC platforms.

.. _native:

Native Visual C++ support
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Support for the Visual C++ compilers is currently not available. The
CMake build system is capable of creating suitable a Visual Studio
style build environment, but the LAMMPS source code itself is not
ported to fully support Visual C++. Volunteers to take on this task
are welcome.
