doc/src/compute_born_matrix.rst, before:

.. index:: compute born/matrix

compute born/matrix command
===========================

Syntax
""""""

.. parsed-literal::

   compute ID group-ID born/matrix

* ID, group-ID are documented in :doc:`compute <compute>` command
* born/matrix = style name of this compute command

Examples
""""""""

.. code-block:: LAMMPS

   compute 1 all born/matrix

Description
"""""""""""

Define a compute that calculates
:math:`\frac{\partial{}^2U}{\partial\varepsilon_{i}\partial\varepsilon_{j}}` the
second derivatives of the potential energy :math:`U` with regard to strain
tensor :math:`\varepsilon` elements. These values are related to:

.. math::

    C^{B}_{i,j}=\frac{1}{V}\frac{\partial{}^2U}{\partial{}\varepsilon_{i}\partial\varepsilon_{j}}

also called the Born term of elastic contants in the stress-stress fluctuation
formalism.  This quantity can be used to compute the elastic constant tensor.
Using the symmetric Voigt notation, the elastic constant tensor can be written
as a 6x6 symmetric matrix:

.. math::

    C_{i,j} = \langle{}C^{B}_{i,j}\rangle
             + \frac{V}{k_{B}T}\left(\langle\sigma_{i}\sigma_{j}\rangle\right.
             \left.- \langle\sigma_{i}\rangle\langle\sigma_{j}\rangle\right)
             + \frac{Nk_{B}T}{V}
               \left(\delta_{i,j}+(\delta_{1,i}+\delta_{2,i}+\delta_{3,i})\right.
               \left.*(\delta_{1,j}+\delta_{2,j}+\delta_{3,j})\right)

In the above expression, :math:`\sigma` stands for the virial stress
tensor, :math:`\delta` is the Kronecker delta and the usual notation apply for
the number of particle, the temperature and volume respectively :math:`N`,
:math:`T` and :math:`V`. :math:`k_{B}` is the Boltzmann constant.

The Born term is a symmetric 6x6 matrix by construction and as such can be
expressed as 21 independent terms. The terms are ordered corresponding to the
following matrix element:

.. math::

    \matrix{
       C_{1}  & C_{7}   & C_{8}  & C_{9}  & C_{10} & C_{11} \\
       C_{7}  & C_{2}   & C_{12} & C_{13} & C_{14} & C_{15} \\
       \vdots & C_{12}  & C_{3}  & C_{16} & C_{17} & C_{18} \\
       \vdots & C_{13}  & C_{16} & C_{4}  & C_{19} & C_{20} \\
       \vdots & \vdots  & \vdots & C_{19} & C_{5}  & C_{21} \\
       \vdots & \vdots  & \vdots & \vdots & C_{21} & C_{6}
       }

in this matrix the indices of :math:`C_{k}` value are the corresponding index
:math:`k` in the compute output. Each term comes from the sum of every
interactions derivatives in the system as explained in :ref:`(VanWorkum)
<VanWorkum>` or :ref:`(Voyiatzis) <Voyiatzis>`.

The output can be accessed using usual Lammps routines:

.. code-block:: LAMMPS

   compute 1 all born/matrix
   compute 2 all pressure NULL virial
   variable S1 equal -c_2[1]
   variable S2 equal -c_2[2]
   variable S3 equal -c_2[3]
   variable S4 equal -c_2[4]
   variable S5 equal -c_2[5]
   variable S6 equal -c_2[6]
   fix 1 all ave/time 1 1 1 v_S1 v_S2 v_S3 v_S4 v_S5 v_S6 c_1[*] file born.out

In this example, the file *born.out* will contain the information needed to
compute the first and second terms of the elastic constant matrix in a post
processing procedure. The other required quantities can be accessed using any
other *LAMMPS* usual method.

NOTE: In the above :math:`C_{i,j}` computation, the term involving the virial
stress tensor :math:`\sigma` is the covariance between each elements. In a
solid the virial stress can have large variations between timesteps and average
values can be slow to converge. This term is better computed using
instantaneous values.

**Output info:**

This compute calculates a global array with the number of rows=21.
The values are ordered as explained above. These values can be used
by any command that uses a global values from a compute as input. See
the :doc:`Howto output <Howto_output>` doc page for an overview of
LAMMPS output options.

The array values calculated by this compute are all "extensive".

Restrictions
""""""""""""

The Born term can be decomposed as a product of two terms. The first one
is a general term which depends on the configuration. The second one is
specific to every interaction composing your forcefield (non-bonded,
bonds, angle...). Currently not all interaction implement the *born_matrix*
method giving first and second order derivatives and a warning will
be raised if you try to use this compute with such interactions. The returned
values of this forcefield component is currently zero.

Default
"""""""

none

.. _VanWorkum:

K.Van Workum et al. J. Chem. Phys. 125 144506 (2006)

.. _Voyiatzis:

E.Voyiatzis, Computer Physics Communications 184(2013)27-33

Commit message:

integrate into manual and build/source code system. apply conventions
Former-commit-id: fa88dacd7bbeaa1c7cf03caa51ee5bd5d8a2ae3c

doc/src/compute_born_matrix.rst, after:

.. index:: compute born/matrix

compute born/matrix command
===========================

Syntax
""""""

.. parsed-literal::

   compute ID group-ID born/matrix

* ID, group-ID are documented in :doc:`compute <compute>` command
* born/matrix = style name of this compute command

Examples
""""""""

.. code-block:: LAMMPS

   compute 1 all born/matrix

Description
"""""""""""

Define a compute that calculates
:math:`\frac{\partial{}^2U}{\partial\varepsilon_{i}\partial\varepsilon_{j}}` the
second derivatives of the potential energy :math:`U` with regard to strain
tensor :math:`\varepsilon` elements. These values are related to:

.. math::

    C^{B}_{i,j}=\frac{1}{V}\frac{\partial{}^2U}{\partial{}\varepsilon_{i}\partial\varepsilon_{j}}

also called the Born term of elastic contants in the stress-stress fluctuation
formalism.  This quantity can be used to compute the elastic constant tensor.
Using the symmetric Voigt notation, the elastic constant tensor can be written
as a 6x6 symmetric matrix:

.. math::

    C_{i,j} = \langle{}C^{B}_{i,j}\rangle
             + \frac{V}{k_{B}T}\left(\langle\sigma_{i}\sigma_{j}\rangle\right.
             \left.- \langle\sigma_{i}\rangle\langle\sigma_{j}\rangle\right)
             + \frac{Nk_{B}T}{V}
               \left(\delta_{i,j}+(\delta_{1,i}+\delta_{2,i}+\delta_{3,i})\right.
               \left.*(\delta_{1,j}+\delta_{2,j}+\delta_{3,j})\right)

In the above expression, :math:`\sigma` stands for the virial stress
tensor, :math:`\delta` is the Kronecker delta and the usual notation apply for
the number of particle, the temperature and volume respectively :math:`N`,
:math:`T` and :math:`V`. :math:`k_{B}` is the Boltzmann constant.

The Born term is a symmetric 6x6 matrix by construction and as such can be
expressed as 21 independent terms. The terms are ordered corresponding to the
following matrix element:

.. math::

    \matrix{
       C_{1}  & C_{7}   & C_{8}  & C_{9}  & C_{10} & C_{11} \\
       C_{7}  & C_{2}   & C_{12} & C_{13} & C_{14} & C_{15} \\
       \vdots & C_{12}  & C_{3}  & C_{16} & C_{17} & C_{18} \\
       \vdots & C_{13}  & C_{16} & C_{4}  & C_{19} & C_{20} \\
       \vdots & \vdots  & \vdots & C_{19} & C_{5}  & C_{21} \\
       \vdots & \vdots  & \vdots & \vdots & C_{21} & C_{6}
       }

in this matrix the indices of :math:`C_{k}` value are the corresponding index
:math:`k` in the compute output. Each term comes from the sum of every
interactions derivatives in the system as explained in :ref:`(VanWorkum)
<VanWorkum>` or :ref:`(Voyiatzis) <Voyiatzis>`.

The output can be accessed using usual Lammps routines:

.. code-block:: LAMMPS

   compute 1 all born/matrix
   compute 2 all pressure NULL virial
   variable S1 equal -c_2[1]
   variable S2 equal -c_2[2]
   variable S3 equal -c_2[3]
   variable S4 equal -c_2[4]
   variable S5 equal -c_2[5]
   variable S6 equal -c_2[6]
   fix 1 all ave/time 1 1 1 v_S1 v_S2 v_S3 v_S4 v_S5 v_S6 c_1[*] file born.out

In this example, the file *born.out* will contain the information needed to
compute the first and second terms of the elastic constant matrix in a post
processing procedure. The other required quantities can be accessed using any
other *LAMMPS* usual method.

NOTE: In the above :math:`C_{i,j}` computation, the term involving the virial
stress tensor :math:`\sigma` is the covariance between each elements. In a
solid the virial stress can have large variations between timesteps and average
values can be slow to converge. This term is better computed using
instantaneous values.

**Output info:**

This compute calculates a global array with the number of rows=21.
The values are ordered as explained above. These values can be used
by any command that uses a global values from a compute as input. See
the :doc:`Howto output <Howto_output>` doc page for an overview of
LAMMPS output options.

The array values calculated by this compute are all "extensive".

Restrictions
""""""""""""

This compute is part of the EXTRA-COMPUTE package.  It is only enabled if
LAMMPS was built with that package.  See the :doc:`Build package <Build_package>` page for more info.

The Born term can be decomposed as a product of two terms. The first one
is a general term which depends on the configuration. The second one is
specific to every interaction composing your forcefield (non-bonded,
bonds, angle...). Currently not all interaction implement the *born_matrix*
method giving first and second order derivatives and a warning will
be raised if you try to use this compute with such interactions. The returned
values of this forcefield component is currently zero.

Default
"""""""

none

.. _VanWorkum:

**(Van Workum)** K. Van Workum et al., J. Chem. Phys. 125 144506 (2006)

.. _Voyiatzis:

**(Voyiatzis)** E. Voyiatzis, Computer Physics Communications 184(2013)27-33
