doc/src/compute_fabric.rst, before:

.. index:: compute fabric

compute fabric command
======================

Syntax
""""""

.. parsed-literal::

   compute ID group-ID fabric cutoff attribute1 attribute2 ... keyword values ...

* ID, group-ID are documented in :doc:`compute <compute>` command
* fabric = style name of this compute command
* cutoff = *type* or *radius*

  .. parsed-literal::

       *type* = cutoffs determined based on atom types
       *radius* = cutoffs determined based on atom diameters (atom style sphere)

* one or more attributes may be appended

  .. parsed-literal::

       *contact* = contact tensor
       *branch* = branch tensor
       *force/normal* = normal force tensor
       *force/tangential* = tangential force tensor

* zero or more keyword/value pairs may be appended
* keyword = *type/include*

  .. parsed-literal::

       *type/include* value = arg1 arg2
         arg = separate lists of types (see below)

Examples
""""""""

.. code-block:: LAMMPS

   compute 1 all fabric type contact force/normal type/include 1,2 3*4
   compute 1 all fabric radius force/normal force/tangential

Description
"""""""""""

Define a compute that calculates various fabric tensors for pairwise
interactions :ref:`(Ouadfel) <Ouadfel>`. The *type* and *radius* settings
are used to select whether interactions cutoffs are determined by atom types
or by the sum of atomic radii (atom style sphere), respectively.

Four fabric tensors are available: the contact, branch, normal force, or
tangential force tensor. The contact tensor is calculated as

.. math::

   C_{ab}  =  \frac{15}{2} (\phi_{ab} - \mathrm{tr}(\phi) \delta_{ab})

where :math:`a` and :math:`b` are the :math:`x`, :math:`y`, :math:`z`
directions, :math:`\delta_{ab}` is the Kronecker delta function, and
the tensor :math:`\phi` is defined as

.. math::

   \phi_{ab}  =  \sum_{n = 1}^{N_p} \frac{r_{a} r_{b}}{r^2}

where :math:`n` loops over the :math:`N_p` pair interactions in the simulation,
:math:`r_{a}` is the :math:`a` component of the radial vector between the
two pairwise interacting particles, and :math:`r` is the magnitude of the radial vector.

The branch tensor is calculated as

.. math::

   B_{ab}  =  \frac{15}{6 \mathrm{tr}(D)} (D_{ab} - \mathrm{tr}(D) \delta_{ab})

where the tensor :math:`D` is defined as

.. math::

   D_{ab}  =  \sum_{n = 1}^{N_p}
                \frac{1}{N_c (r^2 + C_{cd} r_c r_d)}
                \frac{r_{a} r_{b}}{r}

where :math:`N_c` is the total number of contacts in the system and the subscripts
:math:`c` and :math:`d` indices are summed according to Einstein notation.

The normal force fabric tensor is calculated as

.. math::

   F^n_{ab}  =  \frac{15}{6 \mathrm{tr}(N)} (N_{ab} - \mathrm{tr}(N) \delta_{ab})

where the tensor :math:`N` is defined as

.. math::

   N_{ab}  =  \sum_{n = 1}^{N_p}
                \frac{1}{N_c (r^2 + C_{cd} r_c r_d)}
                \frac{r_{a} r_{b}}{r^2} f_n

and :math:`f_n` is the magnitude of the normal, central-body force between the two atoms.

Finally, the tangential force fabric tensor is only defined for pair styles that
apply tangential forces to particles, namely granular pair styles. It is calculated
as

.. math::

   F^t_{ab}  =  \frac{15}{9 \mathrm{tr}(N)} (T_{ab} - \mathrm{tr}(T) \delta_{ab})

where the tensor :math:`T` is defined as

.. math::

   T_{ab}  =  \sum_{n = 1}^{N_p}
                \frac{1}{N_c (r^2 + C_{cd} r_c r_d)}
                \frac{r_{a} r_{b}}{r^2} f_t

and :math:`f_t` is the magnitude of the tangential force between the two atoms.

The *type/include* keyword filters interactions based on the types of the two atoms.
Interactions between two atoms are only included in calculations if the atom types
are in the two lists. Each list consists of a series of type
ranges separated by commas. The range can be specified as a
single numeric value, or a wildcard asterisk can be used to specify a range
of values.  This takes the form "\*" or "\*n" or "n\*" or "m\*n".  For
example, if M = the number of atom types, then an asterisk with no numeric
values means all types from 1 to M.  A leading asterisk means all types
from 1 to n (inclusive).  A trailing asterisk means all types from n to M
(inclusive).  A middle asterisk means all types from m to n (inclusive).
Multiple *type/include* keywords may be added.

Output info
"""""""""""

This compute calculates a local vector of doubles. The vector stores the
unique components of the first requested tensor in the order xx, yy, zz, xy, xz, yz
followed by the same components for all subsequent tensors. The final entry is the
number of pairwise interactions included in the calculation of the fabric tensor.
The length of the vector is therefore six times the number of requested tensors plus one.

Restrictions
""""""""""""

This fix is part of the GRANULAR package.  It is only enabled if LAMMPS
was built with that package.  See the :doc:`Build package <Build_package>` doc page for more info.

Currently, compute *fabric* does not support pair styles
with many-body interactions.  It also does not
support models with long-range Coulombic or dispersion forces,
i.e. the kspace_style command in LAMMPS.  It also does not support the
following fixes which add rigid-body constraints: :doc:`fix shake
<fix_shake>`, :doc:`fix rattle <fix_shake>`, :doc:`fix rigid
<fix_rigid>`, :doc:`fix rigid/small <fix_rigid>`. It does not support
granular pair styles that extend beyond the contact of atomic radii
(e.g. JKR and DMT).

Related commands
""""""""""""""""

none

Default
"""""""

none

----------

.. _Ouadfel:

**(Ouadfel)** Ouadfel and Rothenburg
"Stress-force-fabric relationship for assemblies of ellipsoids",
Mechanics of Materials (2001). (`link to paper <https://doi.org/10.1016/S0167-6636(00)00057-0>`_)

Commit message:

Updating documentation, adding compute scalar
Former-commit-id: d5e5f590e83ab943c15058ebaae5eb30a7564d2c

doc/src/compute_fabric.rst, after:

.. index:: compute fabric

compute fabric command
======================

Syntax
""""""

.. parsed-literal::

   compute ID group-ID fabric cutoff attribute1 attribute2 ... keyword values ...

* ID, group-ID are documented in :doc:`compute <compute>` command
* fabric = style name of this compute command
* cutoff = *type* or *radius*

  .. parsed-literal::

       *type* = cutoffs determined based on atom types
       *radius* = cutoffs determined based on atom diameters (atom style sphere)

* one or more attributes may be appended

  .. parsed-literal::

       *contact* = contact tensor
       *branch* = branch tensor
       *force/normal* = normal force tensor
       *force/tangential* = tangential force tensor

* zero or more keyword/value pairs may be appended
* keyword = *type/include*

  .. parsed-literal::

       *type/include* value = arg1 arg2
         arg = separate lists of types (see below)

Examples
""""""""

.. code-block:: LAMMPS

   compute 1 all fabric type contact force/normal type/include 1,2 3*4
   compute 1 all fabric radius force/normal force/tangential

Description
"""""""""""

Define a compute that calculates various fabric tensors for pairwise
interaction :ref:`(Ouadfel) <Ouadfel>`. Fabric tensors are commonly used
to quantify the anisotropy or orientation of granular contacts but can also
be used to characterize the direction of pairwise interactions in general
systems. The *type* and *radius* settings are used to select whether interactions
cutoffs are determined by atom types or by the sum of atomic radii (atom
style sphere), respectively. Calling this compute is roughly the cost of a
pair style invocation as it involves a loop over the neighbor list. If the
normal or tangential force tensors are requested, it will be more expensive
than a pair style invocation as it will also recalculate all pair forces.

Four fabric tensors are available: the contact, branch, normal force, or
tangential force tensor. The contact tensor is calculated as

.. math::

   C_{ab}  =  \frac{15}{2} (\phi_{ab} - \mathrm{tr}(\phi) \delta_{ab})

where :math:`a` and :math:`b` are the :math:`x`, :math:`y`, :math:`z`
directions, :math:`\delta_{ab}` is the Kronecker delta function, and
the tensor :math:`\phi` is defined as

.. math::

   \phi_{ab}  =  \sum_{n = 1}^{N_p} \frac{r_{a} r_{b}}{r^2}

where :math:`n` loops over the :math:`N_p` pair interactions in the simulation,
:math:`r_{a}` is the :math:`a` component of the radial vector between the
two pairwise interacting particles, and :math:`r` is the magnitude of the radial vector.

The branch tensor is calculated as

.. math::

   B_{ab}  =  \frac{15}{6 \mathrm{tr}(D)} (D_{ab} - \mathrm{tr}(D) \delta_{ab})

where the tensor :math:`D` is defined as

.. math::

   D_{ab}  =  \sum_{n = 1}^{N_p}
                \frac{1}{N_c (r^2 + C_{cd} r_c r_d)}
                \frac{r_{a} r_{b}}{r}

where :math:`N_c` is the total number of contacts in the system and the subscripts
:math:`c` and :math:`d` indices are summed according to Einstein notation.

The normal force fabric tensor is calculated as

.. math::

   F^n_{ab}  =  \frac{15}{6 \mathrm{tr}(N)} (N_{ab} - \mathrm{tr}(N) \delta_{ab})

where the tensor :math:`N` is defined as

.. math::

   N_{ab}  =  \sum_{n = 1}^{N_p}
                \frac{1}{N_c (r^2 + C_{cd} r_c r_d)}
                \frac{r_{a} r_{b}}{r^2} f_n

and :math:`f_n` is the magnitude of the normal, central-body force between the two atoms.

Finally, the tangential force fabric tensor is only defined for pair styles that
apply tangential forces to particles, namely granular pair styles. It is calculated
as

.. math::

   F^t_{ab}  =  \frac{15}{9 \mathrm{tr}(N)} (T_{ab} - \mathrm{tr}(T) \delta_{ab})

where the tensor :math:`T` is defined as

.. math::

   T_{ab}  =  \sum_{n = 1}^{N_p}
                \frac{1}{N_c (r^2 + C_{cd} r_c r_d)}
                \frac{r_{a} r_{b}}{r^2} f_t

and :math:`f_t` is the magnitude of the tangential force between the two atoms.

The *type/include* keyword filters interactions based on the types of the two atoms.
Interactions between two atoms are only included in calculations if the atom types
are in the two lists. Each list consists of a series of type
ranges separated by commas. The range can be specified as a
single numeric value, or a wildcard asterisk can be used to specify a range
of values.  This takes the form "\*" or "\*n" or "n\*" or "m\*n".  For
example, if M = the number of atom types, then an asterisk with no numeric
values means all types from 1 to M.  A leading asterisk means all types
from 1 to n (inclusive).  A trailing asterisk means all types from n to M
(inclusive).  A middle asterisk means all types from m to n (inclusive).
Multiple *type/include* keywords may be added.

Output info
"""""""""""

This compute calculates a local vector of doubles and a scalar. The vector stores the
unique components of the first requested tensor in the order xx, yy, zz, xy, xz, yz
followed by the same components for all subsequent tensors. The length of the vector
is therefore six times the number of requested tensors. The scalar output is the
number of pairwise interactions included in the calculation of the fabric tensor.

Restrictions
""""""""""""

This fix is part of the GRANULAR package.  It is only enabled if LAMMPS
was built with that package.  See the :doc:`Build package <Build_package>`
doc page for more info.

Currently, compute *fabric* does not support pair styles
with many-body interactions.  It also does not
support models with long-range Coulombic or dispersion forces,
i.e. the kspace_style command in LAMMPS.  It also does not support the
following fixes which add rigid-body constraints: :doc:`fix shake
<fix_shake>`, :doc:`fix rattle <fix_shake>`, :doc:`fix rigid
<fix_rigid>`, :doc:`fix rigid/small <fix_rigid>`. It does not support
granular pair styles that extend beyond the contact of atomic radii
(e.g. JKR and DMT).

Related commands
""""""""""""""""

none

Default
"""""""

none

----------

.. _Ouadfel:

**(Ouadfel)** Ouadfel and Rothenburg
"Stress-force-fabric relationship for assemblies of ellipsoids",
Mechanics of Materials (2001). (`link to paper <https://doi.org/10.1016/S0167-6636(00)00057-0>`_)
