doc/src/compute_pressure_cartesian.rst, before:

.. index:: compute pressure/cartesian
.. index:: compute pressure/cylinder
.. index:: compute pressure/spherical


compute pressure/cartesian command
==================================

compute pressure/cylinder command
=================================

compute pressure/spherical command
==================================

Syntax
""""""

.. parsed-literal::

   compute ID group-ID style args

* ID, group-ID are documented in :doc:`compute <compute>` command
* style = pressure/cartesian or pressure/spherical or pressure/cylinder
* args = argument specific to the compute style

.. parsed-literal::

  *pressure/cartesian* args = dim bin_width
    dim = x, y, or z. One or two dim/bin_width pairs may be appended
    bin_width = width of the bin
  *pressure/cylinder* args = zlo zh Rmax bin_width keyword
    zlo = minimum z-boundary for cylinder
    zhi = maximum z-boundary for cylinder
    Rmax = maximum radius to perform calculation to
    bin_width = width of radial bins to use for calculation
    keyword = ke (zero or one can be specified)
      ke = yes or no
  *pressure/spherical*
    x0, y0, z0 = origin of the spherical coordinate system
    bin_width = width of spherical shells
    Rmax = maximum radius of spherical shells

Examples
""""""""

.. code-block:: LAMMPS

   compute 1 all pressure/cartesian x 0.1
   compute 1 all pressure/cartesian y 0.25 z 0.1
   compute 1 all pressure/cylinder -10.0 10.0 15.0 0.25
   compute 1 all pressure/cylinder -10.0 10.0 15.0 0.25 ke no
   compute 1 all pressure/spherical 0 0 0 0.1 10

Description
"""""""""""

Compute *pressure/cartesian*, compute *pressure/cylinder*, and compute
*pressure/spherical* define computations that calculate profiles of the
diagonal components of the local pressure tensor in the specified
coordinate system. The pressure tensor is split into a kinetic
contribution :math:`P^k` and a virial contribution :math:`P^v`. The sum
gives the total pressure tensor :math:`P = P^k+P^v`. These computes can
for example be used to calculate the diagonal components of the local
pressure tensor of interfaces with flat, cylindrical, or spherical
symmetry. These computes obeys momentum balance through fluid
interfaces. They use the Irving-Kirkwood contour, which is the straight
line between particle pairs.

The *pressure/cartesian* computes the pressure profile along one or two
Cartesian coordinates, as described in :ref:`(Ikeshoji)<Ikeshoji2>`. The
compute *pressure/cylinder* computes the pressure profile along the
radial direction in cylindrical coordinates, as described in
:ref:`(Addington)<Addington1>`. The compute *pressure/spherical*
computes the pressure profile along the radial direction in spherical
coordinates, as described in :ref:`(Ikeshoji)<Ikeshoji2>`.


Output info
"""""""""""

The output columns for *pressure/cartesian* are the position of the
center of the local volume in the first and second dimensions, number
density, :math:`P^k_{xx}`, :math:`P^k_{yy}`, :math:`P^k_{zz}`,
:math:`P^v_{xx}`, :math:`P^v_{yy}`, and :math:`P^v_{zz}`. There are 8
columns when one dimension is specified and 9 columns when two
dimensions are specified. The number of bins/rows are
(L1/bin_width1)*(L2/bin_width2), L1 and L2 are the sizes of the
simulation box in the specified dimensions, and bin_width1 and
bin_width2 are the specified bin widths. When only one dimension is
specified the number of bins/rows are L1/bin_width.

The default output columns for *pressure/cylinder* are the radius to the
center of the cylindrical shell, number density, :math:`P^k_{rr}`,
:math:`P^k_{\phi\phi}`, :math:`P^k_{zz}`, :math:`P^v_{rr}`,
:math:`P^v_{\phi\phi}`, and :math:`P^v_{zz}`. When the keyword *ke* is
set to no, the kinetic contributions are not calculated, and
consequently there are only 5 columns the radius to the center of the
cylindrical shell, number density, :math:`P^v_{rr}`,
:math:`P^v_{\phi\phi}`, :math:`P^v_{zz}`. The number of bins/rows are
Rmax/bin_width.

The output columns for *pressure/spherical* are the radius to the center
of the spherical shell, number density, :math:`P^k_{rr}`,
:math:`P^k_{\theta\theta}`, :math:`P^k_{\phi\phi}`, :math:`P^v_{rr}`,
:math:`P^v_{\theta\theta}`, and :math:`P^v_{\phi\phi}`. There are 8
columns and the number of bins/rows are Rmax/bin_width.

This array can be output with :doc:`fix ave/time <fix_ave_time>`,

.. code-block:: LAMMPS

  compute p all pressure/cartesian x 0.1
  fix 2 all ave/time 100 1 100 c_p[*] file dump_p.out mode vector

The values calculated by this compute are "intensive".  The pressure
values will be in pressure :doc:`units <units>`. The number density
values are in inverse volume :doc:`units <units>`.


Restrictions
""""""""""""

These computes calculate the pressure tensor contributions for pair
styles only (i.e. no bond, angle, dihedral, etc. contributions, and in
the presence of bonded interactions, the result will be incorrect due to
exclusions for special bonds) and requires pairwise force calculations
not available for most many-body pair styles. K-space calculations are
also excluded.

These computes are part of the EXTRA-COMPUTE package.  They are only
enabled if LAMMPS was built with that package.  See the :doc:`Build
package <Build_package>` doc page for more info.

Related commands
""""""""""""""""

:doc:`compute stress/atom <compute_stress_atom>`, :doc:`compute pressure <compute_pressure>`, :doc:`compute stress/mop <compute_stress_mop>`

Default
"""""""

The keyword default for ke in style *pressure/cylinder* is yes.

----------

.. _Ikeshoji2:

**(Ikeshoji)** Ikeshoji, Hafskjold, Furuholt, Mol Sim, 29, 101-109, (2003).

.. _Addington1:

**(Addington)** Addington, Long, Gubbins, J Chem Phys, 149, 084109 (2018).

Commit message:

Added notes on similarity between these computes
Former-commit-id: c2b0347b30b0c35e9826b5bd3ce5e4acefa5f2fa

doc/src/compute_pressure_cartesian.rst, after:

.. index:: compute pressure/cartesian
.. index:: compute pressure/cylinder
.. index:: compute pressure/spherical


compute pressure/cartesian command
==================================

compute pressure/cylinder command
=================================

compute pressure/spherical command
==================================

Syntax
""""""

.. parsed-literal::

   compute ID group-ID style args

* ID, group-ID are documented in :doc:`compute <compute>` command
* style = pressure/cartesian or pressure/spherical or pressure/cylinder
* args = argument specific to the compute style

.. parsed-literal::

  *pressure/cartesian* args = dim bin_width
    dim = x, y, or z. One or two dim/bin_width pairs may be appended
    bin_width = width of the bin
  *pressure/cylinder* args = zlo zh Rmax bin_width keyword
    zlo = minimum z-boundary for cylinder
    zhi = maximum z-boundary for cylinder
    Rmax = maximum radius to perform calculation to
    bin_width = width of radial bins to use for calculation
    keyword = ke (zero or one can be specified)
      ke = yes or no
  *pressure/spherical*
    x0, y0, z0 = origin of the spherical coordinate system
    bin_width = width of spherical shells
    Rmax = maximum radius of spherical shells

Examples
""""""""

.. code-block:: LAMMPS

   compute 1 all pressure/cartesian x 0.1
   compute 1 all pressure/cartesian y 0.25 z 0.1
   compute 1 all pressure/cylinder -10.0 10.0 15.0 0.25
   compute 1 all pressure/cylinder -10.0 10.0 15.0 0.25 ke no
   compute 1 all pressure/spherical 0 0 0 0.1 10

Description
"""""""""""

Compute *pressure/cartesian*, compute *pressure/cylinder*, and compute
*pressure/spherical* define computations that calculate profiles of the
diagonal components of the local pressure tensor in the specified
coordinate system. The pressure tensor is split into a kinetic
contribution :math:`P^k` and a virial contribution :math:`P^v`. The sum
gives the total pressure tensor :math:`P = P^k+P^v`. These computes can
for example be used to calculate the diagonal components of the local
pressure tensor of interfaces with flat, cylindrical, or spherical
symmetry. These computes obeys momentum balance through fluid
interfaces. They use the Irving-Kirkwood contour, which is the straight
line between particle pairs.

The *pressure/cartesian* computes the pressure profile along one or two
Cartesian coordinates, as described in :ref:`(Ikeshoji)<Ikeshoji2>`. The
compute *pressure/cylinder* computes the pressure profile along the
radial direction in cylindrical coordinates, as described in
:ref:`(Addington)<Addington1>`. The compute *pressure/spherical*
computes the pressure profile along the radial direction in spherical
coordinates, as described in :ref:`(Ikeshoji)<Ikeshoji2>`.


Output info
"""""""""""

The output columns for *pressure/cartesian* are the position of the
center of the local volume in the first and second dimensions, number
density, :math:`P^k_{xx}`, :math:`P^k_{yy}`, :math:`P^k_{zz}`,
:math:`P^v_{xx}`, :math:`P^v_{yy}`, and :math:`P^v_{zz}`. There are 8
columns when one dimension is specified and 9 columns when two
dimensions are specified. The number of bins/rows are
(L1/bin_width1)*(L2/bin_width2), L1 and L2 are the sizes of the
simulation box in the specified dimensions, and bin_width1 and
bin_width2 are the specified bin widths. When only one dimension is
specified the number of bins/rows are L1/bin_width.

The default output columns for *pressure/cylinder* are the radius to the
center of the cylindrical shell, number density, :math:`P^k_{rr}`,
:math:`P^k_{\phi\phi}`, :math:`P^k_{zz}`, :math:`P^v_{rr}`,
:math:`P^v_{\phi\phi}`, and :math:`P^v_{zz}`. When the keyword *ke* is
set to no, the kinetic contributions are not calculated, and
consequently there are only 5 columns the radius to the center of the
cylindrical shell, number density, :math:`P^v_{rr}`,
:math:`P^v_{\phi\phi}`, :math:`P^v_{zz}`. The number of bins/rows are
Rmax/bin_width.

The output columns for *pressure/spherical* are the radius to the center
of the spherical shell, number density, :math:`P^k_{rr}`,
:math:`P^k_{\theta\theta}`, :math:`P^k_{\phi\phi}`, :math:`P^v_{rr}`,
:math:`P^v_{\theta\theta}`, and :math:`P^v_{\phi\phi}`. There are 8
columns and the number of bins/rows are Rmax/bin_width.

This array can be output with :doc:`fix ave/time <fix_ave_time>`,

.. code-block:: LAMMPS

  compute p all pressure/cartesian x 0.1
  fix 2 all ave/time 100 1 100 c_p[*] file dump_p.out mode vector

The values calculated by this compute are "intensive".  The pressure
values will be in pressure :doc:`units <units>`. The number density
values are in inverse volume :doc:`units <units>`.

NOTE 1: The local stress does not include any Lennard-Jones tail
corrections to the pressure added by the :doc:`pair_modify tail yes <pair_modify>` command, since those are contributions to the global system pressure.

NOTE 2: The local stress profiles generated by these computes are
similar to those obtained by the
:doc:`method-of-planes (MOP) <compute_stress_mop>`.
A key difference
is that compute `stress/mop/profile <compute_stress_mop>`
considers particles crossing a set of planes, while
*pressure/cartesian* computes averages for a set of small volumes.
More information on the similarities and differences can be found in
:ref:`(Ikeshoji)<Ikeshoji2>`.

Restrictions
""""""""""""

These computes calculate the pressure tensor contributions for pair
styles only (i.e. no bond, angle, dihedral, etc. contributions, and in
the presence of bonded interactions, the result will be incorrect due to
exclusions for special bonds) and requires pairwise force calculations
not available for most many-body pair styles. K-space calculations are
also excluded.

These computes are part of the EXTRA-COMPUTE package.  They are only
enabled if LAMMPS was built with that package.  See the :doc:`Build
package <Build_package>` doc page for more info.

Related commands
""""""""""""""""

:doc:`compute stress/atom <compute_stress_atom>`, :doc:`compute pressure <compute_pressure>`, :doc:`compute stress/mop/profile <compute_stress_mop>`

Default
"""""""

The keyword default for ke in style *pressure/cylinder* is yes.

----------

.. _Ikeshoji2:

**(Ikeshoji)** Ikeshoji, Hafskjold, Furuholt, Mol Sim, 29, 101-109, (2003).

.. _Addington1:

**(Addington)** Addington, Long, Gubbins, J Chem Phys, 149, 084109 (2018).
