doc/src/Install_git.rst, before:

Download the LAMMPS source with git
-----------------------------------

All LAMMPS development is coordinated through the "LAMMPS GitHub
site".  If you clone the LAMMPS repository onto your local machine, it
has several advantages:

* You can stay current with changes to LAMMPS with a single git
  command.
* You can create your own development branches to add code to LAMMPS.
* You can submit your new features back to GitHub for inclusion in
  LAMMPS.

You must have `git <git_>`_ installed on your system to use the
commands explained below to communicate with the git servers on
GitHub.  For people still using subversion (svn), GitHub also
provides `limited support for subversion clients <svn_>`_.

.. note::

   As of October 2016, the official home of public LAMMPS development is
   on GitHub.  The previously advertised LAMMPS git repositories on
   git.lammps.org and bitbucket.org are now deprecated or offline.

.. _git: https://git-scm.com
.. _svn: https://help.github.com/en/github/importing-your-projects-to-github/working-with-subversion-on-github

You can follow LAMMPS development on 3 different git branches:

* **stable**   :  this branch is updated with every stable release
* **unstable** :  this branch is updated with every patch release
* **master**   :  this branch continuously follows ongoing development

To access the git repositories on your box, use the clone command to
create a local copy of the LAMMPS repository with a command like:

.. code-block:: bash

   $ git clone -b unstable https://github.com/lammps/lammps.git mylammps

where "mylammps" is the name of the directory you wish to create on
your machine and "unstable" is one of the 3 branches listed above.
(Note that you actually download all 3 branches; you can switch
between them at any time using "git checkout <branch name>".)

Once the command completes, your directory will contain the same files
as if you unpacked a current LAMMPS tarball, with the exception, that
the HTML documentation files are not included.  They can be fetched
from the LAMMPS website by typing ``make fetch`` in the doc directory.
Or they can be generated from the content provided in doc/src by
typing ``make html`` from the doc directory.

After initial cloning, as bug fixes and new features are added to
LAMMPS you can stay up-to-date by typing the following git commands
from within the "mylammps" directory:

.. code-block:: bash

   $ git checkout unstable      # not needed if you always stay in this branch
   $ git checkout stable        # use one of these 3 checkout commands
   $ git checkout master        # to choose the branch to follow
   $ git pull

Doing a "pull" will not change any files you have added to the LAMMPS
directory structure.  It will also not change any existing LAMMPS
files you have edited, unless those files have changed in the
repository.  In that case, git will attempt to merge the new
repository file with your version of the file and tell you if there
are any conflicts.  See the git documentation for details.

If you want to access a particular previous release version of LAMMPS,
you can instead "check out" any version with a published tag. See the
output of ``git tag -l`` for the list of tags.  The git command to do
this is as follows.

.. code-block:: bash

   $ git checkout tagID

Stable versions and what tagID to use for a particular stable version
are discussed on `this page <https://www.lammps.org/bug.html#version>`_.
Note that this command will print some warnings, because in order to get
back to the latest revision and to be able to update with ``git pull``
again, you will need to do ``git checkout unstable`` (or
check out any other desired branch) first.

Once you have updated your local files with a ``git pull`` (or ``git
checkout``), you still need to re-build LAMMPS if any source files have
changed.  How to do this depends on the build system you are using.

.. tabs::

   .. tab:: CMake build

      Change to your build folder and type:

      .. code-block:: bash

         cmake . --build

      CMake should auto-detect whether it needs to re-run the CMake
      configuration step and otherwise redo the build for all files
      that have been changed or files that depend on changed files.
      In case some build options have been changed or renamed, you
      may have to update those by running:

      .. code-block:: bash

         cmake .

      and then rebuild.

   .. tab:: Traditional make

      Switch to the src directory and type:

      .. code-block:: bash

         $ make purge             # remove any deprecated src files
         $ make package-update    # sync package files with src files
         $ make foo               # re-build for your machine (mpi, serial, etc)

      Just as described on the :doc:`Apply patch <Install_patch>` page,
      after a patch has been installed.

      .. warning::

         If you wish to edit/change a src file that is from a package,
         you should edit the version of the file inside the package
         sub-directory with src, then re-install the package.  The
         version in the source directory is merely a copy and will be
         wiped out if you type "make package-update".

.. admonition:: Git protocols
   :class: note

   The servers at github.com support the "git://" and "https://" access
   protocols for anonymous, read-only access.  If you have a suitably
   configured GitHub account, you may also use SSH protocol with the
   URL "git@github.com:lammps/lammps.git".

The LAMMPS GitHub project is currently managed by Axel Kohlmeyer
(Temple U, akohlmey at gmail.com) and Richard Berger (Temple U,
richard.berger at temple.edu).

Commit message:

update installation instructions and remove references to patches which we don't provide anymore
Former-commit-id: 7ba9c22d2cbd5232fe5a4e7cf0430b227f5cb9d0

doc/src/Install_git.rst, after:

Download the LAMMPS source with git
-----------------------------------

All LAMMPS development is coordinated through the "LAMMPS GitHub
site".  If you clone the LAMMPS repository onto your local machine, it
has several advantages:

* You can stay current with changes to LAMMPS with a single git
  command.
* You can create your own development branches to add code to LAMMPS.
* You can submit your new features back to GitHub for inclusion in
  LAMMPS.

You must have `git <git_>`_ installed on your system to use the
commands explained below to communicate with the git servers on
GitHub.  For people still using subversion (svn), GitHub also
provides `limited support for subversion clients <svn_>`_.

.. note::

   As of October 2016, the official home of public LAMMPS development is
   on GitHub.  The previously advertised LAMMPS git repositories on
   git.lammps.org and bitbucket.org are now deprecated or offline.

.. _git: https://git-scm.com
.. _svn: https://help.github.com/en/github/importing-your-projects-to-github/working-with-subversion-on-github

You can follow LAMMPS development on 3 different git branches:

* **stable**   :  this branch is updated with every stable release
* **unstable** :  this branch is updated with every patch release
* **master**   :  this branch continuously follows ongoing development

To access the git repositories on your box, use the clone command to
create a local copy of the LAMMPS repository with a command like:

.. code-block:: bash

   $ git clone -b unstable https://github.com/lammps/lammps.git mylammps

where "mylammps" is the name of the directory you wish to create on
your machine and "unstable" is one of the 3 branches listed above.
(Note that you actually download all 3 branches; you can switch
between them at any time using "git checkout <branch name>".)

Once the command completes, your directory will contain the same files
as if you unpacked a current LAMMPS tarball, with the exception, that
the HTML documentation files are not included.  They can be fetched
from the LAMMPS website by typing ``make fetch`` in the doc directory.
Or they can be generated from the content provided in doc/src by
typing ``make html`` from the doc directory.

After initial cloning, as bug fixes and new features are added to
LAMMPS you can stay up-to-date by typing the following git commands
from within the "mylammps" directory:

.. code-block:: bash

   $ git checkout unstable      # not needed if you always stay in this branch
   $ git checkout stable        # use one of these 3 checkout commands
   $ git checkout master        # to choose the branch to follow
   $ git pull

Doing a "pull" will not change any files you have added to the LAMMPS
directory structure.  It will also not change any existing LAMMPS
files you have edited, unless those files have changed in the
repository.  In that case, git will attempt to merge the new
repository file with your version of the file and tell you if there
are any conflicts.  See the git documentation for details.

If you want to access a particular previous release version of LAMMPS,
you can instead "check out" any version with a published tag. See the
output of ``git tag -l`` for the list of tags.  The git command to do
this is as follows.

.. code-block:: bash

   $ git checkout tagID

Stable versions and what tagID to use for a particular stable version
are discussed on `this page <https://www.lammps.org/bug.html#version>`_.
Note that this command will print some warnings, because in order to get
back to the latest revision and to be able to update with ``git pull``
again, you will need to do ``git checkout unstable`` (or
check out any other desired branch) first.

Once you have updated your local files with a ``git pull`` (or ``git
checkout``), you still need to re-build LAMMPS if any source files have
changed.  How to do this depends on the build system you are using.

.. tabs::

   .. tab:: CMake build

      Change to your build folder and type:

      .. code-block:: bash

         cmake . --build

      CMake should auto-detect whether it needs to re-run the CMake
      configuration step and otherwise redo the build for all files
      that have been changed or files that depend on changed files.
      In case some build options have been changed or renamed, you
      may have to update those by running:

      .. code-block:: bash

         cmake .

      and then rebuild.

   .. tab:: Traditional make

      Switch to the src directory and type:

      .. code-block:: bash

         $ make purge             # remove any deprecated src files
         $ make package-update    # sync package files with src files
         $ make foo               # re-build for your machine (mpi, serial, etc)

      to enforce consistency of the source between the src folder
      and package directories.  This is OK to do even if you don't
      use any packages. The "make purge" command removes any deprecated
      src files if they were removed by the patch from a package
      sub-directory.

      .. warning::

         If you wish to edit/change a src file that is from a package,
         you should edit the version of the file inside the package
         sub-directory with src, then re-install the package.  The
         version in the source directory is merely a copy and will be
         wiped out if you type "make package-update".

.. admonition:: Git protocols
   :class: note

   The servers at github.com support the "git://" and "https://" access
   protocols for anonymous, read-only access.  If you have a suitably
   configured GitHub account, you may also use SSH protocol with the
   URL "git@github.com:lammps/lammps.git".

The LAMMPS GitHub project is currently managed by Axel Kohlmeyer
(Temple U, akohlmey at gmail.com) and Richard Berger (Temple U,
richard.berger at temple.edu).
