doc/src/pair_hybrid.rst, before:

.. index:: pair_style hybrid
.. index:: pair_style hybrid/kk
.. index:: pair_style hybrid/overlay
.. index:: pair_style hybrid/overlay/kk
.. index:: pair_style hybrid/scaled

pair_style hybrid command
=========================

Accelerator Variants: *hybrid/kk*

pair_style hybrid/overlay command
=================================

Accelerator Variants: *hybrid/overlay/kk*

pair_style hybrid/scaled command
==================================

Syntax
""""""

.. code-block:: LAMMPS

   pair_style hybrid style1 args style2 args ...
   pair_style hybrid/overlay style1 args style2 args ...
   pair_style hybrid/scaled factor1 style1 args factor2 style 2 args ...

* style1,style2 = list of one or more pair styles and their arguments
* factor1,factor2 = scale factors for pair styles, may be a variable

Examples
""""""""

.. code-block:: LAMMPS

   pair_style hybrid lj/cut/coul/cut 10.0 eam lj/cut 5.0
   pair_coeff 1*2 1*2 eam niu3
   pair_coeff 3 3 lj/cut/coul/cut 1.0 1.0
   pair_coeff 1*2 3 lj/cut 0.5 1.2

   pair_style hybrid/overlay lj/cut 2.5 coul/long 2.0
   pair_coeff * * lj/cut 1.0 1.0
   pair_coeff * * coul/long

   pair_style hybrid/scaled 0.5 tersoff 0.5 sw
   pair_coeff * * tersoff Si.tersoff Si
   pair_coeff * * sw Si.sw Si

   variable one equal ramp(1.0,0.0)
   variable two equal 1.0-v_one
   pair_style hybrid/scaled v_one lj/cut 2.5 v_two morse 2.5
   pair_coeff 1 1 lj/cut 1.0 1.0 2.5
   pair_coeff 1 1 morse 1.0 1.0 1.0 2.5

Description
"""""""""""

The *hybrid*, *hybrid/overlay*, and *hybrid/scaled* styles enable the
use of multiple pair styles in one simulation.  With the *hybrid* style,
exactly one pair style is assigned to each pair of atom types.  With the
*hybrid/overlay* and *hybrid/scaled* styles, one or more pair styles can
be assigned to each pair of atom types.  The assignment of pair styles
to type pairs is made via the :doc:`pair_coeff <pair_coeff>` command.
The major difference between the *hybrid/overlay* and *hybrid/scaled*
styles is that the *hybrid/scaled* adds a scale factor for each
sub-style contribution to forces, energies and stresses.  Because of the
added complexity, the *hybrid/scaled* style has more overhead and thus
may be slower than *hybrid/overlay*.

Here are two examples of hybrid simulations.  The *hybrid* style could
be used for a simulation of a metal droplet on a LJ surface.  The metal
atoms interact with each other via an *eam* potential, the surface atoms
interact with each other via a *lj/cut* potential, and the metal/surface
interaction is also computed via a *lj/cut* potential.  The
*hybrid/overlay* style could be used as in the second example above,
where multiple potentials are superposed in an additive fashion to
compute the interaction between atoms.  In this example, using *lj/cut*
and *coul/long* together gives the same result as if the
*lj/cut/coul/long* potential were used by itself.  In this case, it
would be more efficient to use the single combined potential, but in
general any combination of pair potentials can be used together in to
produce an interaction that is not encoded in any single pair_style
file, e.g. adding Coulombic forces between granular particles.

If the *hybrid/scaled* style is used instead of *hybrid/overlay*\ ,
contributions from sub-styles are weighted by their scale factors, which
may be fractional or even negative.  Furthermore the scale factors may
be variables that may change during a simulation.  This enables
switching smoothly between two different pair styles or two different
parameter sets during a run.

All pair styles that will be used are listed as "sub-styles" following
the *hybrid* or *hybrid/overlay* keyword, in any order.  In case of the
*hybrid/scaled* pair style, each sub-style is prefixed with a scale
factor.  The scale factor is either a floating point number or an equal
style (or equivalent) variable.  Each sub-style's name is followed by
its usual arguments, as illustrated in the examples above.  See the doc
pages of the individual pair styles for a listing and explanation of the
appropriate arguments for them.

Note that an individual pair style can be used multiple times as a
sub-style.  For efficiency reasons this should only be done if your
model requires it.  E.g. if you have different regions of Si and C atoms
and wish to use a Tersoff potential for pure Si for one set of atoms,
and a Tersoff potential for pure C for the other set (presumably with
some third potential for Si-C interactions), then the sub-style
*tersoff* could be listed twice.  But if you just want to use a
Lennard-Jones or other pairwise potential for several different atom
type pairs in your model, then you should just list the sub-style once
and use the pair_coeff command to assign parameters for the different
type pairs.

.. note::

   There is one exception to this option to list an individual
   pair style multiple times: GPU-enabled pair styles in the GPU package.
   This is because the GPU package currently assumes that only one
   instance of a pair style is being used.

In the pair_coeff commands, the name of a pair style must be added
after the I,J type specification, with the remaining coefficients
being those appropriate to that style.  If the pair style is used
multiple times in the pair_style command, then an additional numeric
argument must also be specified which is a number from 1 to M where M
is the number of times the sub-style was listed in the pair style
command.  The extra number indicates which instance of the sub-style
these coefficients apply to.

For example, consider a simulation with 3 atom types: types 1 and 2
are Ni atoms, type 3 are LJ atoms with charges.  The following
commands would set up a hybrid simulation:

.. code-block:: LAMMPS

   pair_style hybrid eam/alloy lj/cut/coul/cut 10.0 lj/cut 8.0
   pair_coeff * * eam/alloy nialhjea Ni Ni NULL
   pair_coeff 3 3 lj/cut/coul/cut 1.0 1.0
   pair_coeff 1*2 3 lj/cut 0.8 1.3

As an example of using the same pair style multiple times, consider a
simulation with 2 atom types.  Type 1 is Si, type 2 is C.  The
following commands would model the Si atoms with Tersoff, the C atoms
with Tersoff, and the cross-interactions with Lennard-Jones:

.. code-block:: LAMMPS

   pair_style hybrid lj/cut 2.5 tersoff tersoff
   pair_coeff * * tersoff 1 Si.tersoff Si NULL
   pair_coeff * * tersoff 2 C.tersoff NULL C
   pair_coeff 1 2 lj/cut 1.0 1.5

If pair coefficients are specified in the data file read via the
:doc:`read_data <read_data>` command, then the same rule applies.
E.g. "eam/alloy" or "lj/cut" must be added after the atom type, for
each line in the "Pair Coeffs" section, e.g.

.. parsed-literal::

   Pair Coeffs

   1 lj/cut/coul/cut 1.0 1.0
   ...

Note that the pair_coeff command for some potentials such as
:doc:`pair_style eam/alloy <pair_eam>` includes a mapping specification
of elements to all atom types, which in the hybrid case, can include
atom types not assigned to the *eam/alloy* potential.  The NULL
keyword is used by many such potentials (eam/alloy, Tersoff, AIREBO,
etc), to denote an atom type that will be assigned to a different
sub-style.

For the *hybrid* style, each atom type pair I,J is assigned to exactly
one sub-style.  Just as with a simulation using a single pair style,
if you specify the same atom type pair in a second pair_coeff command,
the previous assignment will be overwritten.

For the *hybrid/overlay* and *hybrid/scaled* styles, each atom type pair
I,J can be assigned to one or more sub-styles.  If you specify the same
atom type pair in a second pair_coeff command with a new sub-style, then
the second sub-style is added to the list of potentials that will be
calculated for two interacting atoms of those types.  If you specify the
same atom type pair in a second pair_coeff command with a sub-style that
has already been defined for that pair of atoms, then the new pair
coefficients simply override the previous ones, as in the normal usage
of the pair_coeff command.  E.g. these two sets of commands are the
same:

.. code-block:: LAMMPS

   pair_style lj/cut 2.5
   pair_coeff * * 1.0 1.0
   pair_coeff 2 2 1.5 0.8

   pair_style hybrid/overlay lj/cut 2.5
   pair_coeff * * lj/cut 1.0 1.0
   pair_coeff 2 2 lj/cut 1.5 0.8

Coefficients must be defined for each pair of atoms types via the
:doc:`pair_coeff <pair_coeff>` command as described above, or in the
data file read by the :doc:`read_data <read_data>` commands, or by
mixing as described below.

For all of the *hybrid*, *hybrid/overlay*, and *hybrid/scaled* styles,
every atom type pair I,J (where I <= J) must be assigned to at least one
sub-style via the :doc:`pair_coeff <pair_coeff>` command as in the
examples above, or in the data file read by the :doc:`read_data
<read_data>`, or by mixing as described below.  Also all sub-styles
must be used at least once in a :doc:`pair_coeff <pair_coeff>` command.

If you want there to be no interactions between a particular pair of
atom types, you have 3 choices.  You can assign the type pair to some
sub-style and use the :doc:`neigh_modify exclude type <neigh_modify>`
command.  You can assign it to some sub-style and set the coefficients
so that there is effectively no interaction (e.g. epsilon = 0.0 in a LJ
potential).  Or, for *hybrid*, *hybrid/overlay*, or *hybrid/scaled*
simulations, you can use this form of the pair_coeff command in your
input script:

.. code-block:: LAMMPS

   pair_coeff  2 3  none

or this form in the "Pair Coeffs" section of the data file:

.. parsed-literal::

   3  none

If an assignment to *none* is made in a simulation with the
*hybrid/overlay* or *hybrid/scaled* pair style, it wipes out all
previous assignments of that pair of atom types to sub-styles.

Note that you may need to use an :doc:`atom_style <atom_style>` hybrid
command in your input script, if atoms in the simulation will need
attributes from several atom styles, due to using multiple pair
styles with different requirements.

----------

Different force fields (e.g. CHARMM vs AMBER) may have different rules
for applying weightings that change the strength of pairwise
interactions between pairs of atoms that are also 1-2, 1-3, and 1-4
neighbors in the molecular bond topology, as normally set by the
:doc:`special_bonds <special_bonds>` command.  Different weights can be
assigned to different pair hybrid sub-styles via the :doc:`pair_modify
special <pair_modify>` command. This allows multiple force fields to be
used in a model of a hybrid system, however, there is no consistent
approach to determine parameters automatically for the interactions
between the two force fields, this is only recommended when particles
described by the different force fields do not mix.

Here is an example for mixing CHARMM and AMBER: The global *amber*
setting sets the 1-4 interactions to non-zero scaling factors and
then overrides them with 0.0 only for CHARMM:

.. code-block:: LAMMPS

   special_bonds amber
   pair_hybrid lj/charmm/coul/long 8.0 10.0 lj/cut/coul/long 10.0
   pair_modify pair lj/charmm/coul/long special lj/coul 0.0 0.0 0.0

The this input achieves the same effect:

.. code-block:: LAMMPS

   special_bonds 0.0 0.0 0.1
   pair_hybrid lj/charmm/coul/long 8.0 10.0 lj/cut/coul/long 10.0
   pair_modify pair lj/cut/coul/long special lj 0.0 0.0 0.5
   pair_modify pair lj/cut/coul/long special coul 0.0 0.0 0.83333333
   pair_modify pair lj/charmm/coul/long special lj/coul 0.0 0.0 0.0

Here is an example for mixing Tersoff with OPLS/AA based on
a data file that defines bonds for all atoms where for the
Tersoff part of the system the force constants for the bonded
interactions have been set to 0. Note the global settings are
effectively *lj/coul 0.0 0.0 0.5* as required for OPLS/AA:

.. code-block:: LAMMPS

   special_bonds lj/coul 1e-20 1e-20 0.5
   pair_hybrid tersoff lj/cut/coul/long 12.0
   pair_modify pair tersoff special lj/coul 1.0 1.0 1.0

For use with the various :doc:`compute \*/tally <compute_tally>`
computes, the :doc:`pair_modify compute/tally <pair_modify>`
command can be used to selectively turn off processing of
the compute tally styles, for example, if those pair styles
(e.g. many-body styles) do not support this feature.

See the :doc:`pair_modify <pair_modify>` doc page for details on
the specific syntax, requirements and restrictions.

----------

The potential energy contribution to the overall system due to an
individual sub-style can be accessed and output via the :doc:`compute
pair <compute_pair>` command.  Note that in the case of pair style
*hybrid/scaled* this is the **unscaled** potential energy of the
selected sub-style.

----------

.. note::

   Several of the potentials defined via the pair_style command in
   LAMMPS are really many-body potentials, such as Tersoff, AIREBO, MEAM,
   ReaxFF, etc.  The way to think about using these potentials in a
   hybrid setting is as follows.

A subset of atom types is assigned to the many-body potential with a
single :doc:`pair_coeff <pair_coeff>` command, using "\* \*" to include
all types and the NULL keywords described above to exclude specific
types not assigned to that potential.  If types 1,3,4 were assigned in
that way (but not type 2), this means that all many-body interactions
between all atoms of types 1,3,4 will be computed by that potential.
Pair_style hybrid allows interactions between type pairs 2-2, 1-2,
2-3, 2-4 to be specified for computation by other pair styles.  You
could even add a second interaction for 1-1 to be computed by another
pair style, assuming pair_style hybrid/overlay is used.

But you should not, as a general rule, attempt to exclude the many-body
interactions for some subset of the type pairs within the set of 1,3,4
interactions, e.g. exclude 1-1 or 1-3 interactions.  That is not
conceptually well-defined for many-body interactions, since the
potential will typically calculate energies and foces for small groups
of atoms, e.g. 3 or 4 atoms, using the neighbor lists of the atoms to
find the additional atoms in the group.

However, you can still use the pair_coeff none setting or the
:doc:`neigh_modify exclude <neigh_modify>` command to exclude certain
type pairs from the neighbor list that will be passed to a many-body
sub-style.  This will alter the calculations made by a many-body
potential beyond the specific pairs, since it builds its list of 3-body,
4-body, etc interactions from the pair lists.  You will need to think
**carefully** as to whether excluding such pairs produces a physically
meaningful result for your model.

For example, imagine you have two atom types in your model, type 1 for
atoms in one surface, and type 2 for atoms in the other, and you wish
to use a Tersoff potential to compute interactions within each
surface, but not between the surfaces.  Then either of these two command
sequences would implement that model:

.. code-block:: LAMMPS

   pair_style hybrid tersoff
   pair_coeff * * tersoff SiC.tersoff C C
   pair_coeff 1 2 none

   pair_style tersoff
   pair_coeff * * SiC.tersoff C C
   neigh_modify exclude type 1 2

Either way, only neighbor lists with 1-1 or 2-2 interactions would be
passed to the Tersoff potential, which means it would compute no
3-body interactions containing both type 1 and 2 atoms.

Here is another example to use 2 many-body potentials together in an
overlapping manner using hybrid/overlay.  Imagine you have CNT (C atoms)
on a Si surface.  You want to use Tersoff for Si/Si and Si/C
interactions, and AIREBO for C/C interactions.  Si atoms are type 1; C
atoms are type 2.  Something like this will work:

.. code-block:: LAMMPS

   pair_style hybrid/overlay tersoff airebo 3.0
   pair_coeff * * tersoff SiC.tersoff.custom Si C
   pair_coeff * * airebo CH.airebo NULL C

Note that to prevent the Tersoff potential from computing C/C
interactions, you would need to **modify** the SiC.tersoff potential
file to turn off C/C interaction, i.e. by setting the appropriate
coefficients to 0.0.

----------

Styles with a *gpu*\ , *intel*\ , *kk*\ , *omp*\ , or *opt* suffix are
functionally the same as the corresponding style without the suffix.
They have been optimized to run faster, depending on your available
hardware, as discussed on the :doc:`Speed packages <Speed_packages>` doc
page.  Pair style *hybrid/scaled* does (currently) not support the
*gpu*, *omp*, *kk*, or *intel* suffix.

Since the *hybrid*, *hybrid/overlay*, *hybrid/scaled* styles delegate
computation to the individual sub-styles, the suffix versions of the
*hybrid* and *hybrid/overlay* styles are used to propagate the
corresponding suffix to all sub-styles, if those versions
exist. Otherwise the non-accelerated version will be used.

The individual accelerated sub-styles are part of the GPU, KOKKOS,
USER-INTEL, USER-OMP, and OPT packages, respectively.  They are only
enabled if LAMMPS was built with those packages.  See the :doc:`Build
package <Build_package>` doc page for more info.

You can specify the accelerated styles explicitly in your input script
by including their suffix, or you can use the :doc:`-suffix command-line switch <Run_options>` when you invoke LAMMPS, or you can use the
:doc:`suffix <suffix>` command in your input script.

See the :doc:`Speed packages <Speed_packages>` doc page for more
instructions on how to use the accelerated styles effectively.

----------

Mixing, shift, table, tail correction, restart, rRESPA info
"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

Any pair potential settings made via the
:doc:`pair_modify <pair_modify>` command are passed along to all
sub-styles of the hybrid potential.

For atom type pairs I,J and I != J, if the sub-style assigned to I,I and
J,J is the same, and if the sub-style allows for mixing, then the
coefficients for I,J can be mixed.  This means you do not have to
specify a pair_coeff command for I,J since the I,J type pair will be
assigned automatically to the sub-style defined for both I,I and J,J and
its coefficients generated by the mixing rule used by that sub-style.
For the *hybrid/overlay* and *hybrid/scaled* style, there is an
additional requirement that both the I,I and J,J pairs are assigned to a
single sub-style.  See the :doc:`pair_modify <pair_modify>` command for
details of mixing rules.  See the See the doc page for the sub-style to
see if allows for mixing.

The hybrid pair styles supports the :doc:`pair_modify <pair_modify>`
shift, table, and tail options for an I,J pair interaction, if the
associated sub-style supports it.

For the hybrid pair styles, the list of sub-styles and their respective
settings are written to :doc:`binary restart files <restart>`, so a
:doc:`pair_style <pair_style>` command does not need to specified in an
input script that reads a restart file.  However, the coefficient
information is not stored in the restart file.  Thus, pair_coeff
commands need to be re-specified in the restart input script.  For pair
style *hybrid/scaled* also the names of any variables used as scale
factors are restored, but not the variables themselves, so those may
need to be redefined when continuing from a restart.

These pair styles support the use of the *inner*\ , *middle*\ , and
*outer* keywords of the :doc:`run_style respa <run_style>` command, if
their sub-styles do.

Restrictions
""""""""""""

When using a long-range Coulombic solver (via the
:doc:`kspace_style <kspace_style>` command) with a hybrid pair_style,
one or more sub-styles will be of the "long" variety,
e.g. *lj/cut/coul/long* or *buck/coul/long*\ .  You must insure that the
short-range Coulombic cutoff used by each of these long pair styles is
the same or else LAMMPS will generate an error.

Pair style *hybrid/scaled* currently only works for non-accelerated
pair styles and pair styles from the OPT package.

Related commands
""""""""""""""""

:doc:`pair_coeff <pair_coeff>`

Default
"""""""

none

Commit message:

document limitation of not using GPU pair styles as the same style multiple times with hybrid
Former-commit-id: 1ad45d65d6ea6c45c4df71d56fb626c5353281ac

doc/src/pair_hybrid.rst, after:

.. index:: pair_style hybrid
.. index:: pair_style hybrid/kk
.. index:: pair_style hybrid/overlay
.. index:: pair_style hybrid/overlay/kk
.. index:: pair_style hybrid/scaled

pair_style hybrid command
=========================

Accelerator Variants: *hybrid/kk*

pair_style hybrid/overlay command
=================================

Accelerator Variants: *hybrid/overlay/kk*

pair_style hybrid/scaled command
==================================

Syntax
""""""

.. code-block:: LAMMPS

   pair_style hybrid style1 args style2 args ...
   pair_style hybrid/overlay style1 args style2 args ...
   pair_style hybrid/scaled factor1 style1 args factor2 style 2 args ...

* style1,style2 = list of one or more pair styles and their arguments
* factor1,factor2 = scale factors for pair styles, may be a variable

Examples
""""""""

.. code-block:: LAMMPS

   pair_style hybrid lj/cut/coul/cut 10.0 eam lj/cut 5.0
   pair_coeff 1*2 1*2 eam niu3
   pair_coeff 3 3 lj/cut/coul/cut 1.0 1.0
   pair_coeff 1*2 3 lj/cut 0.5 1.2

   pair_style hybrid/overlay lj/cut 2.5 coul/long 2.0
   pair_coeff * * lj/cut 1.0 1.0
   pair_coeff * * coul/long

   pair_style hybrid/scaled 0.5 tersoff 0.5 sw
   pair_coeff * * tersoff Si.tersoff Si
   pair_coeff * * sw Si.sw Si

   variable one equal ramp(1.0,0.0)
   variable two equal 1.0-v_one
   pair_style hybrid/scaled v_one lj/cut 2.5 v_two morse 2.5
   pair_coeff 1 1 lj/cut 1.0 1.0 2.5
   pair_coeff 1 1 morse 1.0 1.0 1.0 2.5

Description
"""""""""""

The *hybrid*, *hybrid/overlay*, and *hybrid/scaled* styles enable the
use of multiple pair styles in one simulation.  With the *hybrid* style,
exactly one pair style is assigned to each pair of atom types.  With the
*hybrid/overlay* and *hybrid/scaled* styles, one or more pair styles can
be assigned to each pair of atom types.  The assignment of pair styles
to type pairs is made via the :doc:`pair_coeff <pair_coeff>` command.
The major difference between the *hybrid/overlay* and *hybrid/scaled*
styles is that the *hybrid/scaled* adds a scale factor for each
sub-style contribution to forces, energies and stresses.  Because of the
added complexity, the *hybrid/scaled* style has more overhead and thus
may be slower than *hybrid/overlay*.

Here are two examples of hybrid simulations.  The *hybrid* style could
be used for a simulation of a metal droplet on a LJ surface.  The metal
atoms interact with each other via an *eam* potential, the surface atoms
interact with each other via a *lj/cut* potential, and the metal/surface
interaction is also computed via a *lj/cut* potential.  The
*hybrid/overlay* style could be used as in the second example above,
where multiple potentials are superposed in an additive fashion to
compute the interaction between atoms.  In this example, using *lj/cut*
and *coul/long* together gives the same result as if the
*lj/cut/coul/long* potential were used by itself.  In this case, it
would be more efficient to use the single combined potential, but in
general any combination of pair potentials can be used together in to
produce an interaction that is not encoded in any single pair_style
file, e.g. adding Coulombic forces between granular particles.

If the *hybrid/scaled* style is used instead of *hybrid/overlay*\ ,
contributions from sub-styles are weighted by their scale factors, which
may be fractional or even negative.  Furthermore the scale factors may
be variables that may change during a simulation.  This enables
switching smoothly between two different pair styles or two different
parameter sets during a run.

All pair styles that will be used are listed as "sub-styles" following
the *hybrid* or *hybrid/overlay* keyword, in any order.  In case of the
*hybrid/scaled* pair style, each sub-style is prefixed with a scale
factor.  The scale factor is either a floating point number or an equal
style (or equivalent) variable.  Each sub-style's name is followed by
its usual arguments, as illustrated in the examples above.  See the doc
pages of the individual pair styles for a listing and explanation of the
appropriate arguments for them.

Note that an individual pair style can be used multiple times as a
sub-style.  For efficiency reasons this should only be done if your
model requires it.  E.g. if you have different regions of Si and C atoms
and wish to use a Tersoff potential for pure Si for one set of atoms,
and a Tersoff potential for pure C for the other set (presumably with
some third potential for Si-C interactions), then the sub-style
*tersoff* could be listed twice.  But if you just want to use a
Lennard-Jones or other pairwise potential for several different atom
type pairs in your model, then you should just list the sub-style once
and use the pair_coeff command to assign parameters for the different
type pairs.

.. note::

   There is one exception to this option to list an individual
   pair style multiple times: GPU-enabled pair styles in the GPU package.
   This is because the GPU package currently assumes that only one
   instance of a pair style is being used.

In the pair_coeff commands, the name of a pair style must be added
after the I,J type specification, with the remaining coefficients
being those appropriate to that style.  If the pair style is used
multiple times in the pair_style command, then an additional numeric
argument must also be specified which is a number from 1 to M where M
is the number of times the sub-style was listed in the pair style
command.  The extra number indicates which instance of the sub-style
these coefficients apply to.

For example, consider a simulation with 3 atom types: types 1 and 2
are Ni atoms, type 3 are LJ atoms with charges.  The following
commands would set up a hybrid simulation:

.. code-block:: LAMMPS

   pair_style hybrid eam/alloy lj/cut/coul/cut 10.0 lj/cut 8.0
   pair_coeff * * eam/alloy nialhjea Ni Ni NULL
   pair_coeff 3 3 lj/cut/coul/cut 1.0 1.0
   pair_coeff 1*2 3 lj/cut 0.8 1.3

As an example of using the same pair style multiple times, consider a
simulation with 2 atom types.  Type 1 is Si, type 2 is C.  The
following commands would model the Si atoms with Tersoff, the C atoms
with Tersoff, and the cross-interactions with Lennard-Jones:

.. code-block:: LAMMPS

   pair_style hybrid lj/cut 2.5 tersoff tersoff
   pair_coeff * * tersoff 1 Si.tersoff Si NULL
   pair_coeff * * tersoff 2 C.tersoff NULL C
   pair_coeff 1 2 lj/cut 1.0 1.5

If pair coefficients are specified in the data file read via the
:doc:`read_data <read_data>` command, then the same rule applies.
E.g. "eam/alloy" or "lj/cut" must be added after the atom type, for
each line in the "Pair Coeffs" section, e.g.

.. parsed-literal::

   Pair Coeffs

   1 lj/cut/coul/cut 1.0 1.0
   ...

Note that the pair_coeff command for some potentials such as
:doc:`pair_style eam/alloy <pair_eam>` includes a mapping specification
of elements to all atom types, which in the hybrid case, can include
atom types not assigned to the *eam/alloy* potential.  The NULL
keyword is used by many such potentials (eam/alloy, Tersoff, AIREBO,
etc), to denote an atom type that will be assigned to a different
sub-style.

For the *hybrid* style, each atom type pair I,J is assigned to exactly
one sub-style.  Just as with a simulation using a single pair style,
if you specify the same atom type pair in a second pair_coeff command,
the previous assignment will be overwritten.

For the *hybrid/overlay* and *hybrid/scaled* styles, each atom type pair
I,J can be assigned to one or more sub-styles.  If you specify the same
atom type pair in a second pair_coeff command with a new sub-style, then
the second sub-style is added to the list of potentials that will be
calculated for two interacting atoms of those types.  If you specify the
same atom type pair in a second pair_coeff command with a sub-style that
has already been defined for that pair of atoms, then the new pair
coefficients simply override the previous ones, as in the normal usage
of the pair_coeff command.  E.g. these two sets of commands are the
same:

.. code-block:: LAMMPS

   pair_style lj/cut 2.5
   pair_coeff * * 1.0 1.0
   pair_coeff 2 2 1.5 0.8

   pair_style hybrid/overlay lj/cut 2.5
   pair_coeff * * lj/cut 1.0 1.0
   pair_coeff 2 2 lj/cut 1.5 0.8

Coefficients must be defined for each pair of atoms types via the
:doc:`pair_coeff <pair_coeff>` command as described above, or in the
data file read by the :doc:`read_data <read_data>` commands, or by
mixing as described below.

For all of the *hybrid*, *hybrid/overlay*, and *hybrid/scaled* styles,
every atom type pair I,J (where I <= J) must be assigned to at least one
sub-style via the :doc:`pair_coeff <pair_coeff>` command as in the
examples above, or in the data file read by the :doc:`read_data
<read_data>`, or by mixing as described below.  Also all sub-styles
must be used at least once in a :doc:`pair_coeff <pair_coeff>` command.

If you want there to be no interactions between a particular pair of
atom types, you have 3 choices.  You can assign the type pair to some
sub-style and use the :doc:`neigh_modify exclude type <neigh_modify>`
command.  You can assign it to some sub-style and set the coefficients
so that there is effectively no interaction (e.g. epsilon = 0.0 in a LJ
potential).  Or, for *hybrid*, *hybrid/overlay*, or *hybrid/scaled*
simulations, you can use this form of the pair_coeff command in your
input script:

.. code-block:: LAMMPS

   pair_coeff  2 3  none

or this form in the "Pair Coeffs" section of the data file:

.. parsed-literal::

   3  none

If an assignment to *none* is made in a simulation with the
*hybrid/overlay* or *hybrid/scaled* pair style, it wipes out all
previous assignments of that pair of atom types to sub-styles.

Note that you may need to use an :doc:`atom_style <atom_style>` hybrid
command in your input script, if atoms in the simulation will need
attributes from several atom styles, due to using multiple pair
styles with different requirements.

----------

Different force fields (e.g. CHARMM vs AMBER) may have different rules
for applying weightings that change the strength of pairwise
interactions between pairs of atoms that are also 1-2, 1-3, and 1-4
neighbors in the molecular bond topology, as normally set by the
:doc:`special_bonds <special_bonds>` command.  Different weights can be
assigned to different pair hybrid sub-styles via the :doc:`pair_modify
special <pair_modify>` command. This allows multiple force fields to be
used in a model of a hybrid system, however, there is no consistent
approach to determine parameters automatically for the interactions
between the two force fields, this is only recommended when particles
described by the different force fields do not mix.

Here is an example for mixing CHARMM and AMBER: The global *amber*
setting sets the 1-4 interactions to non-zero scaling factors and
then overrides them with 0.0 only for CHARMM:

.. code-block:: LAMMPS

   special_bonds amber
   pair_hybrid lj/charmm/coul/long 8.0 10.0 lj/cut/coul/long 10.0
   pair_modify pair lj/charmm/coul/long special lj/coul 0.0 0.0 0.0

The this input achieves the same effect:

.. code-block:: LAMMPS

   special_bonds 0.0 0.0 0.1
   pair_hybrid lj/charmm/coul/long 8.0 10.0 lj/cut/coul/long 10.0
   pair_modify pair lj/cut/coul/long special lj 0.0 0.0 0.5
   pair_modify pair lj/cut/coul/long special coul 0.0 0.0 0.83333333
   pair_modify pair lj/charmm/coul/long special lj/coul 0.0 0.0 0.0

Here is an example for mixing Tersoff with OPLS/AA based on
a data file that defines bonds for all atoms where for the
Tersoff part of the system the force constants for the bonded
interactions have been set to 0. Note the global settings are
effectively *lj/coul 0.0 0.0 0.5* as required for OPLS/AA:

.. code-block:: LAMMPS

   special_bonds lj/coul 1e-20 1e-20 0.5
   pair_hybrid tersoff lj/cut/coul/long 12.0
   pair_modify pair tersoff special lj/coul 1.0 1.0 1.0

For use with the various :doc:`compute \*/tally <compute_tally>`
computes, the :doc:`pair_modify compute/tally <pair_modify>`
command can be used to selectively turn off processing of
the compute tally styles, for example, if those pair styles
(e.g. many-body styles) do not support this feature.

See the :doc:`pair_modify <pair_modify>` doc page for details on
the specific syntax, requirements and restrictions.

----------

The potential energy contribution to the overall system due to an
individual sub-style can be accessed and output via the :doc:`compute
pair <compute_pair>` command.  Note that in the case of pair style
*hybrid/scaled* this is the **unscaled** potential energy of the
selected sub-style.

----------

.. note::

   Several of the potentials defined via the pair_style command in
   LAMMPS are really many-body potentials, such as Tersoff, AIREBO, MEAM,
   ReaxFF, etc.  The way to think about using these potentials in a
   hybrid setting is as follows.

A subset of atom types is assigned to the many-body potential with a
single :doc:`pair_coeff <pair_coeff>` command, using "\* \*" to include
all types and the NULL keywords described above to exclude specific
types not assigned to that potential.  If types 1,3,4 were assigned in
that way (but not type 2), this means that all many-body interactions
between all atoms of types 1,3,4 will be computed by that potential.
Pair_style hybrid allows interactions between type pairs 2-2, 1-2,
2-3, 2-4 to be specified for computation by other pair styles.  You
could even add a second interaction for 1-1 to be computed by another
pair style, assuming pair_style hybrid/overlay is used.

But you should not, as a general rule, attempt to exclude the many-body
interactions for some subset of the type pairs within the set of 1,3,4
interactions, e.g. exclude 1-1 or 1-3 interactions.  That is not
conceptually well-defined for many-body interactions, since the
potential will typically calculate energies and foces for small groups
of atoms, e.g. 3 or 4 atoms, using the neighbor lists of the atoms to
find the additional atoms in the group.

However, you can still use the pair_coeff none setting or the
:doc:`neigh_modify exclude <neigh_modify>` command to exclude certain
type pairs from the neighbor list that will be passed to a many-body
sub-style.  This will alter the calculations made by a many-body
potential beyond the specific pairs, since it builds its list of 3-body,
4-body, etc interactions from the pair lists.  You will need to think
**carefully** as to whether excluding such pairs produces a physically
meaningful result for your model.

For example, imagine you have two atom types in your model, type 1 for
atoms in one surface, and type 2 for atoms in the other, and you wish
to use a Tersoff potential to compute interactions within each
surface, but not between the surfaces.  Then either of these two command
sequences would implement that model:

.. code-block:: LAMMPS

   pair_style hybrid tersoff
   pair_coeff * * tersoff SiC.tersoff C C
   pair_coeff 1 2 none

   pair_style tersoff
   pair_coeff * * SiC.tersoff C C
   neigh_modify exclude type 1 2

Either way, only neighbor lists with 1-1 or 2-2 interactions would be
passed to the Tersoff potential, which means it would compute no
3-body interactions containing both type 1 and 2 atoms.

Here is another example to use 2 many-body potentials together in an
overlapping manner using hybrid/overlay.  Imagine you have CNT (C atoms)
on a Si surface.  You want to use Tersoff for Si/Si and Si/C
interactions, and AIREBO for C/C interactions.  Si atoms are type 1; C
atoms are type 2.  Something like this will work:

.. code-block:: LAMMPS

   pair_style hybrid/overlay tersoff airebo 3.0
   pair_coeff * * tersoff SiC.tersoff.custom Si C
   pair_coeff * * airebo CH.airebo NULL C

Note that to prevent the Tersoff potential from computing C/C
interactions, you would need to **modify** the SiC.tersoff potential
file to turn off C/C interaction, i.e. by setting the appropriate
coefficients to 0.0.

----------

Styles with a *gpu*\ , *intel*\ , *kk*\ , *omp*\ , or *opt* suffix are
functionally the same as the corresponding style without the suffix.
They have been optimized to run faster, depending on your available
hardware, as discussed on the :doc:`Speed packages <Speed_packages>` doc
page.  Pair style *hybrid/scaled* does (currently) not support the
*gpu*, *omp*, *kk*, or *intel* suffix.

Since the *hybrid*, *hybrid/overlay*, *hybrid/scaled* styles delegate
computation to the individual sub-styles, the suffix versions of the
*hybrid* and *hybrid/overlay* styles are used to propagate the
corresponding suffix to all sub-styles, if those versions
exist. Otherwise the non-accelerated version will be used.

The individual accelerated sub-styles are part of the GPU, KOKKOS,
USER-INTEL, USER-OMP, and OPT packages, respectively.  They are only
enabled if LAMMPS was built with those packages.  See the :doc:`Build
package <Build_package>` doc page for more info.

You can specify the accelerated styles explicitly in your input script
by including their suffix, or you can use the :doc:`-suffix command-line switch <Run_options>` when you invoke LAMMPS, or you can use the
:doc:`suffix <suffix>` command in your input script.

See the :doc:`Speed packages <Speed_packages>` doc page for more
instructions on how to use the accelerated styles effectively.

----------

Mixing, shift, table, tail correction, restart, rRESPA info
"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

Any pair potential settings made via the
:doc:`pair_modify <pair_modify>` command are passed along to all
sub-styles of the hybrid potential.

For atom type pairs I,J and I != J, if the sub-style assigned to I,I and
J,J is the same, and if the sub-style allows for mixing, then the
coefficients for I,J can be mixed.  This means you do not have to
specify a pair_coeff command for I,J since the I,J type pair will be
assigned automatically to the sub-style defined for both I,I and J,J and
its coefficients generated by the mixing rule used by that sub-style.
For the *hybrid/overlay* and *hybrid/scaled* style, there is an
additional requirement that both the I,I and J,J pairs are assigned to a
single sub-style.  See the :doc:`pair_modify <pair_modify>` command for
details of mixing rules.  See the See the doc page for the sub-style to
see if allows for mixing.

The hybrid pair styles supports the :doc:`pair_modify <pair_modify>`
shift, table, and tail options for an I,J pair interaction, if the
associated sub-style supports it.

For the hybrid pair styles, the list of sub-styles and their respective
settings are written to :doc:`binary restart files <restart>`, so a
:doc:`pair_style <pair_style>` command does not need to specified in an
input script that reads a restart file.  However, the coefficient
information is not stored in the restart file.  Thus, pair_coeff
commands need to be re-specified in the restart input script.  For pair
style *hybrid/scaled* also the names of any variables used as scale
factors are restored, but not the variables themselves, so those may
need to be redefined when continuing from a restart.

These pair styles support the use of the *inner*\ , *middle*\ , and
*outer* keywords of the :doc:`run_style respa <run_style>` command, if
their sub-styles do.

Restrictions
""""""""""""

When using a long-range Coulombic solver (via the
:doc:`kspace_style <kspace_style>` command) with a hybrid pair_style,
one or more sub-styles will be of the "long" variety,
e.g. *lj/cut/coul/long* or *buck/coul/long*\ .  You must insure that the
short-range Coulombic cutoff used by each of these long pair styles is
the same or else LAMMPS will generate an error.

Pair style *hybrid/scaled* currently only works for non-accelerated
pair styles and pair styles from the OPT package.

When using pair styles from the GPU package they must not be listed
multiple times.  LAMMPS will detect this and abort.

Related commands
""""""""""""""""

:doc:`pair_coeff <pair_coeff>`

Default
"""""""

none
